" 1.227 
what definitions apply to this subpart? 
(a) the act means the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. 
(b) in addition, for the purposes of this subpart: 
(1) calendar day means every day shown on the calendar. 
(2) facility means any establishment, structure, or structures under one ownership at one general physical location, or, in the case of a mobile facility, traveling to multiple locations, that manufactures/processes, packs, or holds food for consumption in the united states. transport vehicles are not facilities if they hold food only in the usual course of business as carriers. a facility may consist of one or more contiguous structures, and a single building may house more than one distinct facility if the facilities are under separate ownership. the private residence of an individual is not a facility. nonbottled water drinking water collection and distribution establishments and their structures are not facilities. 
(i) domestic facility means any facility located in any state or territory of the united states, the district of columbia, or the commonwealth of puerto rico that manufactures/processes, packs, or holds food for consumption in the united states. 
(ii) foreign facility means a facility other than a domestic facility that manufactures/processes, packs, or holds food for consumption in the united states. 
(3) farm means a facility in one general physical location devoted to the growing and harvesting of crops, the raising of animals (including seafood), or both. washing, trimming of outer leaves of, and cooling produce are considered part of harvesting. the term farm includes: 
(i) facilities that pack or hold food, provided that all food used in such activities is grown, raised, or consumed on that farm or another farm under the same ownership; and 
(ii) facilities that manufacture/process food, provided that all food used in such activities is consumed on that farm or another farm under the same ownership. 
(4) food has the meaning given in section 201(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 321(f)), 
(i) except for purposes of this subpart, it does not include: 
(a) food contact substances as defined in section 409(h)(6) of the act (21 u.s.c. 348(h)(6)), or 
(b) pesticides as defined in 7 u.s.c. 136(u). 
(ii) examples of food include fruits, vegetables, fish, dairy products, eggs, raw agricultural commodities for use as food or as components of food, animal feed (including pet food), food and feed ingredients, food and feed additives, dietary supplements and dietary ingredients, infant formula, beverages (including alcoholic beverages and bottled water), live food animals, bakery goods, snack foods, candy, and canned foods. 
(5) holding means storage of food. holding facilities include warehouses, cold storage facilities, storage silos, grain elevators, and liquid storage tanks. 
(6) manufacturing/processing means making food from one or more ingredients, or synthesizing, preparing, treating, modifying or manipulating food, including food crops or ingredients. examples of manufacturing/processing activities are cutting, peeling, trimming, washing, waxing, eviscerating, rendering, cooking, baking, freezing, cooling, pasteurizing, homogenizing, mixing, formulating, bottling, milling, grinding, extracting juice, distilling, labeling, or packaging. 
(7) nonprofit food establishment means a charitable entity that prepares or serves food directly to the consumer or otherwise provides food or meals for consumption by humans or animals in the united states. the term includes central food banks, soup kitchens, and nonprofit food delivery services. to be considered a nonprofit food establishment, the establishment must meet the terms of section 501(c)(3) of the u.s. internal revenue code (26 u.s.c. 501(c)(3)). 
(8) packaging (when used as a verb) means placing food into a container that directly contacts the food and that the consumer receives. 
(9) packing means placing food into a container other than packaging the food. 
(10) restaurant means a facility that prepares and sells food directly to consumers for immediate consumption. restaurant does not include facilities that provide food to interstate conveyances, central kitchens, and other similar facilities that do not prepare and serve food directly to consumers. 
(i) entities in which food is provided to humans, such as cafeterias, lunchrooms, cafes, bistros, fast food establishments, food stands, saloons, taverns, bars, lounges, catering facilities, hospital kitchens, day care kitchens, and nursing home kitchens are restaurants; and 
(ii) pet shelters, kennels, and veterinary facilities in which food is provided to animals are restaurants. 
(11) retail food establishment means an establishment that sells food products directly to consumers as its primary function. a retail food establishment may manufacture/process, pack, or hold food if the establishment's primary function is to sell from that establishment food, including food that it manufactures/processes, packs, or holds, directly to consumers. a retail food establishment's primary function is to sell food directly to consumers if the annual monetary value of sales of food products directly to consumers exceeds the annual monetary value of sales of food products to all other buyers. the term consumers does not include businesses. a retail food establishment includes grocery stores, convenience stores, and vending machine locations. 
(12) trade name means the name or names under which the facility conducts business, or additional names by which the facility is known. a trade name is associated with a facility, and a brand name is associated with a product. 
(13) u.s. agent means a person (as defined in section 201(e) of the act (21 u.s.c. 321(e))) residing or maintaining a place of business in the united states whom a foreign facility designates as its agent for purposes of this subpart. a u.s. agent cannot be in the form of a mailbox, answering machine or service, or other place where an individual acting as the foreign facility's agent is not physically present. 
(i) the u.s. agent acts as a communications link between fda and the foreign facility for both emergency and routine communications. the u.s. agent will be the person fda contacts when an emergency occurs, unless the registration specifies under  1.233(e) another emergency contact. 
(ii) fda will treat representations by the u.s. agent as those of the foreign facility, and will consider information or documents provided to the u.s. agent the equivalent of providing the information or documents to the foreign facility. 
(iii) having a single u.s. agent for the purposes of this subpart does not preclude facilities from having multiple agents (such as foreign suppliers) for other business purposes. a firm's commercial business in the united states need not be conducted through the u.s. agent designated for purposes of this subpart. 
(14) you or registrant means the owner, operator, or agent in charge of a facility that manufactures/processes, packs, or holds food for consumption in the united states.", 
