" 1.276 
what definitions apply to this subpart? 
(a) the act means the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. 
(b) the definitions of terms in section 201 of the act (21 u.s.c. 321) apply when the terms are used in this subpart, unless defined in this section. 
(1) calendar day means every day shown on the calendar. 
(2) country from which the article originates means fda country of production. 
(3) country from which the article is shipped means the country in which the article of food is loaded onto the conveyance that brings it to the united states or, in the case of food sent by international mail, the country from which the article is mailed. 
(4) fda country of production means: (i) for an article of food that is in its natural state, the country where the article of food was grown, including harvested or collected and readied for shipment to the united states. if an article of food is wild fish, including seafood that was caught or harvested outside the waters of the united states by a vessel that is not registered in the united states, the fda country of production is the country in which the vessel is registered. if an article of food that is in its natural state was grown, including harvested or collected and readied for shipment, in a territory, the fda country of production is the united states. 
(ii) for an article of food that is no longer in its natural state, the country where the article was made; except that, if an article of food is made from wild fish, including seafood, aboard a vessel, the fda country of production is the country in which the vessel is registered. if an article of food that is no longer in its natural state was made in a territory, the fda country of production is the united states. 
(5) food has the meaning given in section 201(f) of the act, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. 
(i) for purposes of this subpart, food does not include: 
(a) food contact substances as defined in section 409(h)(6) of the act (21 u.s.c. 348(h)(6)); or 
(b) pesticides as defined in 7 u.s.c. 136(u). 
(ii) examples of food include fruits, vegetables, fish, including seafood, dairy products, eggs, raw agricultural commodities for use as food or as components of food, animal feed (including pet food), food and feed ingredients, food and feed additives, dietary supplements and dietary ingredients, infant formula, beverages (including alcoholic beverages and bottled water), live food animals, bakery goods, snack foods, candy, and canned foods. 
(6) full address means the facility's street name and number; suite/unit number, as appropriate; city; province or state as appropriate; mail code as appropriate; and country. 
(7) grower means a person who engages in growing and harvesting or collecting crops (including botanicals), raising animals (including fish, which includes seafood), or both. 
(8) international mail means foreign national mail services. international mail does not include express consignment operators or carriers or other private delivery services unless such service is operating under contract as an agent or extension of a foreign mail service. 
(9) manufacturer means the last facility, as that word is defined in  1.227(b)(2), that manufactured/processed the food. a facility is considered the last facility even if the food undergoes further manufacturing/processing that consists of adding labeling or any similar activity of a de minimis nature. if the food undergoes further manufacturing/processing that exceeds an activity of a de minimis nature, then the subsequent facility that performed the additional manufacturing/processing is considered the manufacturer. 
(10) no longer in its natural state means that an article of food has been made from one or more ingredients or synthesized, prepared, treated, modified, or manipulated. examples of activities that render food no longer in its natural state are cutting, peeling, trimming, washing, waxing, eviscerating, rendering, cooking, baking, freezing, cooling, pasteurizing, homogenizing, mixing, formulating, bottling, milling, grinding, extracting juice, distilling, labeling, or packaging. crops that have been cleaned (e.g., dusted, washed), trimmed, or cooled attendant to harvest or collection or treated against pests, or polished are still in their natural state for purposes of this subpart. whole fish headed, eviscerated, or frozen attendant to harvest are still in their natural state for purposes of this subpart. 
(11) port of arrival means the water, air, or land port at which the article of food is imported or offered for import into the united states. for an article of food arriving by water or air, this is the port of unloading. for an article of food arriving by land, this is the port where the article of food first crosses the border into the united states. the port of arrival may be different than the port where consumption or warehouse entry or foreign trade zone admission documentation is presented to the u.s. customs and border protection (cbp). 
(12) port of entry , in section 801(m) and (l) of the act (21 u.s.c. 381(m) and (l)), means the port of entry as defined in 19 cfr 101.1. 
(13) registration number means the registration number assigned to a facility by fda under section 415 of the act (21 u.s.c. 350d) and subpart h of this part. 
(14) shipper means the owner or exporter of the article of food who consigns and ships the article from a foreign country or the person who sends an article of food by international mail or express consignment operators or carriers or other private delivery service to the united states. 
(15) united states means the customs territory of the united states (i.e., the 50 states, the district of columbia, and the commonwealth of puerto rico), but not the territories. 
(16) you means the person submitting the prior notice, i.e., the submitter or the transmitter, if any.", 
