" 1.403 
what requirements apply to an informal hearing? 
if fda grants a request for an informal hearing on an appeal of a detention order, fda must conduct the hearing in accordance with part 16 of this chapter, except that: 
(a) the detention order under  1.393, rather than the notice under  16.22(a) of this chapter, provides notice of opportunity for a hearing under this section and is part of the administrative record of the regulatory hearing under  16.80(a) of this chapter; 
(b) a request for a hearing under this section must be addressed to the fda district director in whose district the article of food involved is located; 
(c) the provision in  16.22(b) of this chapter, providing that a person not be given less than 3 working days after receipt of notice to request a hearing, does not apply to a hearing under this subpart; 
(d) the provision in  16.24(e) of this chapter, stating that a hearing may not be required to be held at a time less than 2 working days after receipt of the request for a hearing, does not apply to a hearing under this subpart; 
(e) section 1.406, rather than  16.24(f) of this chapter, describes the statement that will be provided to an appellant where a detention order is based on classified information; 
(f) section 1.404, rather than  16.42(a) of this chapter, describes the fda employees, e.g. , regional food and drug directors or other officials senior to a district director, who preside at hearings under this subpart; 
(g) the presiding officer may require that a hearing conducted under this section be completed within 1 calendar day, as appropriate; 
(h) section 16.60(e) and (f) of this chapter does not apply to a hearing under this subpart. the presiding officer must prepare a written report of the hearing. all written material presented at the hearing will be attached to the report. the presiding officer must include as part of the report of the hearing a finding on the credibility of witnesses (other than expert witnesses) whenever credibility is a material issue, and must include a proposed decision, with a statement of reasons. the hearing participant may review and comment on the presiding officer's report within 4 hours of issuance of the report. the presiding officer will then issue the final agency decision. 
(i) section 16.80(a)(4) of this chapter does not apply to a regulatory hearing under this subpart. the presiding officer's report of the hearing and any comments on the report by the hearing participant under  1.403(h) are part of the administrative record. 
(j) no party shall have the right, under  16.119 of this chapter to petition the commissioner of food and drugs for reconsideration or a stay of the presiding officer's final agency decision. 
(k) if fda grants a request for an informal hearing on an appeal of a detention order, the hearing must be conducted as a regulatory hearing pursuant to regulation in accordance with part 16 of this chapter, except that  16.95(b) does not apply to a hearing under this subpart. with respect to a regulatory hearing under this subpart, the administrative record of the hearing specified in  16.80(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(5), and 1.403(i) constitutes the exclusive record for the presiding officer's final decision on an administrative detention. for purposes of judicial review under  10.45 of this chapter, the record of the administrative proceeding consists of the record of the hearing and the presiding officer's final decision.", 
