" 1020.31 
radiographic equipment. 
the provisions of this section apply to equipment for radiography, except equipment for fluoroscopic imaging or for recording images from the fluoroscopic image receptor, or computed tomography x-ray systems manufactured on or after november 29, 1984. 
(a) control and indication of technique factors (1) visual indication. the technique factors to be used during an exposure shall be indicated before the exposure begins, except when automatic exposure controls are used, in which case the technique factors which are set prior to the exposure shall be indicated. on equipment having fixed technique factors, this requirement may be met by permanent markings. indication of technique factors shall be visible from the operator's position except in the case of spot films made by the fluoroscopist. 
(2) timers. means shall be provided to terminate the exposure at a preset time interval, a preset product of current and time, a preset number of pulses, or a preset radiation exposure to the image receptor. 
(i) except during serial radiography, the operator shall be able to terminate the exposure at any time during an exposure of greater than one-half second. except during panoramic dental radiography, termination of exposure shall cause automatic resetting of the timer to its initial setting or to zero. it shall not be possible to make an exposure when the timer is set to a zero or off position if either position is provided. 
(ii) during serial radiography, the operator shall be able to terminate the x-ray exposure(s) at any time, but means may be provided to permit completion of any single exposure of the series in process. 
(3) automatic exposure controls. when an automatic exposure control is provided: 
(i) indication shall be made on the control panel when this mode of operation is selected; 
(ii) when the x-ray tube potential is equal to or greater than 51 kilovolts peak (kvp), the minimum exposure time for field emission equipment rated for pulsed operation shall be equal to or less than a time interval equivalent to two pulses and the minimum exposure time for all other equipment shall be equal to or less than 1/60 second or a time interval required to deliver 5 milliampere-seconds (mas), whichever is greater; 
(iii) either the product of peak x-ray tube potential, current, and exposure time shall be limited to not more than 60 kilowatt-seconds (kws) per exposure or the product of x-ray tube current and exposure time shall be limited to not more than 600 mas per exposure, except when the x-ray tube potential is less than 51 kvp, in which case the product of x-ray tube current and exposure time shall be limited to not more than 2,000 mas per exposure; and 
(iv) a visible signal shall indicate when an exposure has been terminated at the limits described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, and manual resetting shall be required before further automatically timed exposures can be made. 
(4) accuracy. deviation of technique factors from indicated values shall not exceed the limits given in the information provided in accordance with  1020.30(h)(3). 
(b) reproducibility. the following requirements shall apply when the equipment is operated on an adequate power supply as specified by the manufacturer in accordance with the requirements of  1020.30(h)(3): 
(1) coefficient of variation. for any specific combination of selected technique factors, the estimated coefficient of variation of the air kerma shall be no greater than 0.05. 
(2) measuring compliance. determination of compliance shall be based on 10 consecutive measurements taken within a time period of 1 hour. equipment manufactured after september 5, 1978, shall be subject to the additional requirement that all variable controls for technique factors shall be adjusted to alternate settings and reset to the test setting after each measurement. the percent line-voltage regulation shall be determined for each measurement. all values for percent line-voltage regulation shall be within 1 of the mean value for all measurements. for equipment having automatic exposure controls, compliance shall be determined with a sufficient thickness of attenuating material in the useful beam such that the technique factors can be adjusted to provide individual exposures of a minimum of 12 pulses on field emission equipment rated for pulsed operation or no less than one-tenth second per exposure on all other equipment. 
(c) linearity. the following requirements apply when the equipment is operated on a power supply as specified by the manufacturer in accordance with the requirements of  1020.30(h)(3) for any fixed x-ray tube potential within the range of 40 percent to 100 percent of the maximum rated. 
(1) equipment having independent selection of x-ray tube current (ma). the average ratios of air kerma to the indicated milliampere-seconds product (mgy/mas) obtained at any two consecutive tube current settings shall not differ by more than 0.10 times their sum. this is: |x - x | 0.10(x + x ); where x and x are the average mgy/mas values obtained at each of two consecutive mas selector settings or at two settings differing by no more than a factor of 2 where the mas selector provides continuous selection. 
(2) equipment having selection of x-ray tube current-exposure time product (mas). for equipment manufactured after may 3, 1994, the average ratios of air kerma to the indicated milliampere-seconds product (mgy/mas) obtained at any two consecutive mas selector settings shall not differ by more than 0.10 times their sum. this is: |x - x | 0.10 (x + x ); where x and x are the average mgy/mas values obtained at each of two consecutive mas selector settings or at two settings differing by no more than a factor of 2 where the mas selector provides continuous selection. 
(3) measuring compliance. determination of compliance will be based on 10 exposures, made within 1 hour, at each of the two settings. these two settings may include any two focal spot sizes except where one is equal to or less than 0.45 mm and the other is greater than 0.45 mm. for purposes of this requirement, focal spot size is the focal spot size specified by the x-ray tube manufacturer. the percent line-voltage regulation shall be determined for each measurement. all values for percent line-voltage regulation at any one combination of technique factors shall be within 1 of the mean value for all measurements at these technique factors. 
(d) field limitation and alignment for mobile, portable, and stationary general purpose x-ray systems. except when spot-film devices are in service, mobile, portable, and stationary general purpose radiographic x-ray systems shall meet the following requirements: 
(1) variable x-ray field limitation. a means for stepless adjustment of the size of the x-ray field shall be provided. each dimension of the minimum field size at an sid of 100 centimeters (cm) shall be equal to or less than 5 cm. 
(2) visual definition. (i) means for visually defining the perimeter of the x-ray field shall be provided. the total misalignment of the edges of the visually defined field with the respective edges of the x-ray field along either the length or width of the visually defined field shall not exceed 2 percent of the distance from the source to the center of the visually defined field when the surface upon which it appears is perpendicular to the axis of the x-ray beam. 
(ii) when a light localizer is used to define the x-ray field, it shall provide an average illuminance of not less than 160 lux (15 footcandles) at 100 cm or at the maximum sid, whichever is less. the average illuminance shall be based on measurements made in the approximate center of each quadrant of the light field. radiation therapy simulation systems are exempt from this requirement. 
(iii) the edge of the light field at 100 cm or at the maximum sid, whichever is less, shall have a contrast ratio, corrected for ambient lighting, of not less than 4 in the case of beam-limiting devices designed for use on stationary equipment, and a contrast ratio of not less than 3 in the case of beam-limiting devices designed for use on mobile and portable equipment. the contrast ratio is defined as i /i , where i is the illuminance 3 mm from the edge of the light field toward the center of the field; and i is the illuminance 3 mm from the edge of the light field away from the center of the field. compliance shall be determined with a measuring aperture of 1 mm. 
(e) field indication and alignment on stationary general purpose x-ray equipment. except when spot-film devices are in service, stationary general purpose x-ray systems shall meet the following requirements in addition to those prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section: 
(1) means shall be provided to indicate when the axis of the x-ray beam is perpendicular to the plane of the image receptor, to align the center of the x-ray field with respect to the center of the image receptor to within 2 percent of the sid, and to indicate the sid to within 2 percent; 
(2) the beam-limiting device shall numerically indicate the field size in the plane of the image receptor to which it is adjusted; 
(3) indication of field size dimensions and sids shall be specified in centimeters and/or inches and shall be such that aperture adjustments result in x-ray field dimensions in the plane of the image receptor which correspond to those indicated by the beam-limiting device to within 2 percent of the sid when the beam axis is indicated to be perpendicular to the plane of the image receptor; and 
(4) compliance measurements will be made at discrete sids and image receptor dimensions in common clinical use (such as sids of 100, 150, and 200 cm and/or 36, 40, 48, and 72 inches and nominal image receptor dimensions of 13, 18, 24, 30, 35, 40, and 43 cm and/or 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, and 17 inches) or at any other specific dimensions at which the beam-limiting device or its associated diagnostic x-ray system is uniquely designed to operate. 
(f) field limitation on radiographic x-ray equipment other than general purpose radiographic systems (1) equipment for use with intraoral image receptors. radiographic equipment designed for use with an intraoral image receptor shall be provided with means to limit the x-ray beam such that: 
(i) if the minimum source-to-skin distance (ssd) is 18 cm or more, the x-ray field at the minimum ssd shall be containable in a circle having a diameter of no more than 7 cm; and 
(ii) if the minimum ssd is less than 18 cm, the x-ray field at the minimum ssd shall be containable in a circle having a diameter of no more than 6 cm. 
(2) x-ray systems designed for one image receptor size. radiographic equipment designed for only one image receptor size at a fixed sid shall be provided with means to limit the field at the plane of the image receptor to dimensions no greater than those of the image receptor, and to align the center of the x-ray field with the center of the image receptor to within 2 percent of the sid, or shall be provided with means to both size and align the x-ray field such that the x-ray field at the plane of the image receptor does not extend beyond any edge of the image receptor. 
(3) systems designed for mammography (i) radiographic systems designed only for mammography and general purpose radiography systems, when special attachments for mammography are in service, manufactured on or after november 1, 1977, and before september 30, 1999, shall be provided with means to limit the useful beam such that the x-ray field at the plane of the image receptor does not extend beyond any edge of the image receptor at any designated sid except the edge of the image receptor designed to be adjacent to the chest wall where the x-ray field may not extend beyond this edge by more than 2 percent of the sid. this requirement can be met with a system that performs as prescribed in paragraphs (f)(4)(i), (f)(4)(ii), and (f)(4)(iii) of this section. when the beam-limiting device and image receptor support device are designed to be used to immobilize the breast during a mammographic procedure and the sid may vary, the sid indication specified in paragraphs (f)(4)(ii) and (f)(4)(iii) of this section shall be the maximum sid for which the beam-limiting device or aperture is designed. 
(ii) mammographic beam-limiting devices manufactured on or after september 30, 1999, shall be provided with a means to limit the useful beam such that the x-ray field at the plane of the image receptor does not extend beyond any edge of the image receptor by more than 2 percent of the sid. this requirement can be met with a system that performs as prescribed in paragraphs (f)(4)(i), (f)(4)(ii), and (f)(4)(iii) of this section. for systems that allow changes in the sid, the sid indication specified in paragraphs (f)(4)(ii) and (f)(4)(iii) of this section shall be the maximum sid for which the beam-limiting device or aperture is designed. 
(iii) each image receptor support device manufactured on or after november 1, 1977, intended for installation on a system designed for mammography shall have clear and permanent markings to indicate the maximum image receptor size for which it is designed. 
(4) other x-ray systems. radiographic systems not specifically covered in paragraphs (d), (e), (f)(2), (f)(3), and (h) of this section and systems covered in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, which are also designed for use with extraoral image receptors and when used with an extraoral image receptor, shall be provided with means to limit the x-ray field in the plane of the image receptor so that such field does not exceed each dimension of the image receptor by more than 2 percent of the sid, when the axis of the x-ray beam is perpendicular to the plane of the image receptor. in addition, means shall be provided to align the center of the x-ray field with the center of the image receptor to within 2 percent of the sid, or means shall be provided to both size and align the x-ray field such that the x-ray field at the plane of the image receptor does not extend beyond any edge of the image receptor. these requirements may be met with: 
(i) a system which performs in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section; or when alignment means are also provided, may be met with either; 
(ii) an assortment of removable, fixed-aperture, beam-limiting devices sufficient to meet the requirement for each combination of image receptor size and sid for which the unit is designed. each such device shall have clear and permanent markings to indicate the image receptor size and sid for which it is designed; or 
(iii) a beam-limiting device having multiple fixed apertures sufficient to meet the requirement for each combination of image receptor size and sid for which the unit is designed. permanent, clearly legible markings shall indicate the image receptor size and sid for which each aperture is designed and shall indicate which aperture is in position for use. 
(g) positive beam limitation (pbl). the requirements of this paragraph shall apply to radiographic systems which contain pbl. 
(1) field size. when a pbl system is provided, it shall prevent x-ray production when: 
(i) either the length or width of the x-ray field in the plane of the image receptor differs from the corresponding image receptor dimension by more than 3 percent of the sid; or 
(ii) the sum of the length and width differences as stated in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section without regard to sign exceeds 4 percent of the sid. 
(iii) the beam limiting device is at an sid for which pbl is not designed for sizing. 
(2) conditions for pbl. when provided, the pbl system shall function as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section whenever all the following conditions are met: 
(i) the image receptor is inserted into a permanently mounted cassette holder; 
(ii) the image receptor length and width are less than 50 cm; 
(iii) the x-ray beam axis is within 3 degrees of vertical and the sid is 90 cm to 130 cm inclusive; or the x-ray beam axis is within 3 degrees of horizontal and the sid is 90 cm to 205 cm inclusive; 
(iv) the x-ray beam axis is perpendicular to the plane of the image receptor to within 3 degrees; and 
(v) neither tomographic nor stereoscopic radiography is being performed. 
(3) measuring compliance. compliance with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be determined when the equipment indicates that the beam axis is perpendicular to the plane of the image receptor and the provisions of paragraph (g)(2) of this section are met. compliance shall be determined no sooner than 5 seconds after insertion of the image receptor. 
(4) operator initiated undersizing. the pbl system shall be capable of operation such that, at the discretion of the operator, the size of the field may be made smaller than the size of the image receptor through stepless adjustment of the field size. each dimension of the minimum field size at an sid of 100 cm shall be equal to or less than 5 cm. return to pbl function as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall occur automatically upon any change of image receptor size or sid. 
(5) override of pbl. a capability may be provided for overriding pbl in case of system failure and for servicing the system. this override may be for all sids and image receptor sizes. a key shall be required for any override capability that is accessible to the operator. it shall not be possible to remove the key while pbl is overridden. each such key switch or key shall be clearly and durably labeled as follows: 
for x-ray field limitation system failure the override capability is considered accessible to the operator if it is referenced in the operator's manual or in other material intended for the operator or if its location is such that the operator would consider it part of the operational controls. 
(h) field limitation and alignment for spot-film devices. the following requirements shall apply to spot-film devices, except when the spot-film device is provided for use with a radiation therapy simulation system: 
(1) means shall be provided between the source and the patient for adjustment of the x-ray field size in the plane of the image receptor to the size of that portion of the image receptor which has been selected on the spot-film selector. such adjustment shall be accomplished automatically when the x-ray field size in the plane of the image receptor is greater than the selected portion of the image receptor. if the x-ray field size is less than the size of the selected portion of the image receptor, the field size shall not open automatically to the size of the selected portion of the image receptor unless the operator has selected that mode of operation. 
(2) neither the length nor the width of the x-ray field in the plane of the image receptor shall differ from the corresponding dimensions of the selected portion of the image receptor by more than 3 percent of the sid when adjusted for full coverage of the selected portion of the image receptor. the sum, without regard to sign, of the length and width differences shall not exceed 4 percent of the sid. on spot-film devices manufactured after february 25, 1978, if the angle between the plane of the image receptor and beam axis is variable, means shall be provided to indicate when the axis of the x-ray beam is perpendicular to the plane of the image receptor, and compliance shall be determined with the beam axis indicated to be perpendicular to the plane of the image receptor. 
(3) the center of the x-ray field in the plane of the image receptor shall be aligned with the center of the selected portion of the image receptor to within 2 percent of the sid. 
(4) means shall be provided to reduce the x-ray field size in the plane of the image receptor to a size smaller than the selected portion of the image receptor such that: 
(i) for spot-film devices used on fixed-sid fluoroscopic systems which are not required to, and do not provide stepless adjustment of the x-ray field, the minimum field size, at the greatest sid, does not exceed 125 square cm; or 
(ii) for spot-film devices used on fluoroscopic systems that have a variable sid and/or stepless adjustment of the field size, the minimum field size, at the greatest sid, shall be containable in a square of 5 cm by 5 cm. 
(5) a capability may be provided for overriding the automatic x-ray field size adjustment in case of system failure. if it is so provided, a signal visible at the fluoroscopist's position shall indicate whenever the automatic x-ray field size adjustment override is engaged. each such system failure override switch shall be clearly labeled as follows: 
for x-ray field limitation system failure 
(i) source-skin distance (1) x-ray systems designed for use with an intraoral image receptor shall be provided with means to limit the source-skin distance to not less than: 
(i) eighteen cm if operable above 50 kvp; or 
(ii) ten cm if not operable above 50 kvp. 
(2) mobile and portable x-ray systems other than dental shall be provided with means to limit the source-skin distance to not less than 30 cm. 
(j) beam-on indicators. the x-ray control shall provide visual indication whenever x-rays are produced. in addition, a signal audible to the operator shall indicate that the exposure has terminated. 
(k) multiple tubes. where two or more radiographic tubes are controlled by one exposure switch, the tube or tubes which have been selected shall be clearly indicated before initiation of the exposure. this indication shall be both on the x-ray control and at or near the tube housing assembly which has been selected. 
(l) radiation from capacitor energy storage equipment. radiation emitted from the x-ray tube shall not exceed: 
(1) an air kerma of 0.26 microgy (vice 0.03 mr exposure) in 1 minute at 5 cm from any accessible surface of the diagnostic source assembly, with the beam-limiting device fully open, the system fully charged, and the exposure switch, timer, or any discharge mechanism not activated. compliance shall be determined by measurements averaged over an area of 100 square cm, with no linear dimension greater than 20 cm; and 
(2) an air kerma of 0.88 mgy (vice 100 mr exposure) in 1 hour at 100 cm from the x-ray source, with the beam-limiting device fully open, when the system is discharged through the x-ray tube either manually or automatically by use of a discharge switch or deactivation of the input power. compliance shall be determined by measurements of the maximum air kerma per discharge multiplied by the total number of discharges in 1 hour (duty cycle). the measurements shall be averaged over an area of 100 square cm with no linear dimension greater than 20 cm. 
(m) primary protective barrier for mammography x-ray systems (1) for x-ray systems manufactured after september 5, 1978, and before september 30, 1999, which are designed only for mammography, the transmission of the primary beam through any image receptor support provided with the system shall be limited such that the air kerma 5 cm from any accessible surface beyond the plane of the image receptor supporting device does not exceed 0.88 microgy (vice 0.1 mr exposure) for each activation of the tube. 
(2) for mammographic x-ray systems manufactured on or after september 30, 1999: 
(i) at any sid where exposures can be made, the image receptor support device shall provide a primary protective barrier that intercepts the cross section of the useful beam along every direction except at the chest wall edge. 
(ii) the x-ray system shall not permit exposure unless the appropriate barrier is in place to intercept the useful beam as required in paragraph (m)(2)(i) of this section. 
(iii) the transmission of the useful beam through the primary protective barrier shall be limited such that the air kerma 5 cm from any accessible surface beyond the plane of the primary protective barrier does not exceed 0.88 microgy (vice 0.1 mr exposure) for each activation of the tube. 
(3) compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (m)(1) and (m)(2)(iii) of this section for transmission shall be determined with the x-ray system operated at the minimum sid for which it is designed, at the maximum rated peak tube potential, at the maximum rated product of x-ray tube current and exposure time (mas) for the maximum rated peak tube potential, and by measurements averaged over an area of 100 square cm with no linear dimension greater than 20 cm. the sensitive volume of the radiation measuring instrument shall not be positioned beyond the edge of the primary protective barrier along the chest wall side. 

