" 106.120 
new infant formula submission. 
(a) at least 90 days before a new infant formula is introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce, a manufacturer shall submit notice of its intent to do so to the food and drug administration at the address given in  106.110(a). an original and two paper copies of such notice of intent shall be submitted, unless the notice is submitted in conformance with part 11 of this chapter, in which case a single copy shall be sufficient. 
(b) the new infant formula submission shall include: 
(1) the name and description of the physical form (e.g., powder, ready-to feed, or concentrate) of the infant formula; 
(2) an explanation of why the formula is a new infant formula; 
(3) the quantitative formulation of each form of the infant formula that is the subject of the notice in units per volume or units per weight for liquid formulas, specified either as sold or as fed, and units per dry weight for powdered formulas, and the weight of powder to be reconstituted with a specified volume of water, and, when applicable, a description of any reformulation of the infant formula, including a listing of each new or changed ingredient and a discussion of the effect of such changes on the nutrient levels in the formulation; 
(4) a description, when applicable, of any change in processing of the infant formula. such description shall identify the specific change in processing, including side-by-side, detailed schematic diagrams comparing the new processing to the previous processing and processing times and temperatures; 
(5) assurance that the infant formula will not be marketed unless the formula meets the requirements for quality factors of section 412(b)(1) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 350a(b)(1)) and the nutrient content requirements of section 412(i) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. 
(i) assurance that the formula meets the requirements for quality factors, which are set forth in  106.96, shall be provided by a submission that complies with  106.121; 
(ii) assurance that the formula complies with the nutrient content requirements, which are set forth in  107.100 of this chapter, shall be provided by a statement that the formula will not be marketed unless it meets the nutrient requirements of  107.100 of this chapter, as demonstrated by testing required under subpart c of this part; and 
(6) assurance that the processing of the infant formula complies with section 412(b)(2) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. such assurance shall include: 
(i) a statement that the formula will be produced in accordance with subparts b and c of this part; and 
(ii) the basis on which each ingredient meets the requirements of  106.40(a), e.g. that it is an approved food additive, that it is authorized by a prior sanction, or that it is generally recognized as safe (gras) for its intended use. any claim that an ingredient is gras shall be supported by a citation to the agency's regulations or by an explanation, including a list of published studies and a copy of those publications, for why, based on the published studies, there is general recognition of the safety of the use of the ingredient in infant formula. 
(7) if the manufacturer is requesting an exemption under  106.91(b)(1)(ii), the manufacturer shall include the scientific evidence that the manufacturer is relying on to demonstrate that the stability of the new infant formula will likely not differ from the stability of formulas with similar composition, processing, and packaging for which there are extensive stability data. 
(c) for a new infant formula for export only, a manufacturer may submit, in lieu of the information required under paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(6) of this section, a statement certifying that the infant formula meets the specifications of the foreign purchaser, the infant formula does not conflict with the laws of the country to which it is intended for export, the infant formula is labeled on the outside of the shipping package to indicate that it is intended for export only, and the infant formula will not be sold or offered for sale in domestic commerce. such manufacturer shall also submit a statement certifying that it has adequate controls in place to ensure that such formula is actually exported. 
(d) the submission will not constitute notice under section 412 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act unless it complies fully with paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable, and the information that it contains is set forth in a manner that is readily understandable. the agency will notify the manufacturer if the notice is not complete because it does not meet the requirements in section 412(c) and (d) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. 
(e) if a new infant formula submission contains all the information required by paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable, the food and drug administration will acknowledge its receipt and notify the manufacturer of the date of receipt. the date that the agency receives a new infant formula submission that is complete is the filing date for such submission. the manufacturer shall not market the new infant formula before the date that is 90 days after the filing date. if the information in the submission does not provide the assurances required under section 412(d)(1) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act and the regulations of this chapter, the food and drug administration will so notify the manufacturer before the expiration of the 90th day. 
(f) if the manufacturer provides additional information in support of a new infant formula submission, the agency will determine whether the additional information is a substantive amendment to the new infant formula submission. if the agency determines that the new submission is a substantive amendment, the food and drug administration will assign the new infant formula submission a new filing date. the food and drug administration will acknowledge receipt of the additional information and, when applicable, notify the manufacturer of the new filing date, which is the date of receipt by the food and drug administration of the information that constitutes the substantive amendment to the new infant formula submission. 
(g) submissions relating to exempt infant formulas are subject to the provisions of  107.50 of this chapter. 

