" 108.25 
acidified foods. 
(a) inadequate or improper manufacture, processing, or packing of acidified foods may result in the distribution in interstate commerce of processed foods that may be injurious to health. the harmful nature of such foods cannot be adequately determined after these foods have entered into interstate commerce. the commissioner of food and drugs therefore finds that, to protect the public health, it may be necessary to require any commericial processor, in any establishment engaged in the manufacture, processing, or packing of acidified foods, to obtain and hold a temporary emergency permit provided for under section 404 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. such a permit may be required whenever the commissioner finds, after investigation, that the commercial processor has failed to fulfill all the requirements of this section, including registration and filing of process information, and the mandatory portions of  114.10, 114.80(a) (1) and (2), and (b), 114.83, 114.89, and 114.100 (b), (c), and (d) of this chapter as they relate to acidified foods. these requirements are intended to ensure safe manufacturing, processing, and packing processes and to permit the food and drug administration to verify that these processes are being followed. failure to meet these requirements shall constitute a prima facie basis for the immediate application of the emergency permit control provisions of section 404 of the act to that establishment, under the procedures established in subpart a of this part. 
(b) the definitions in  114.3 of this chapter are applicable when those terms are used in this section. 
(c)(1) registration. a commercial processor, when first engaging in the manufacture, processing, or packing of acidified foods in any state, as defined in section 201(a)(1) of the act, shall, not later than 10 days after first so engaging, register and file with the food and drug administration on form fda 2541 (food canning establishment registration) information including, but not limited to, the name of the establishment, principal place of business, the location of each establishment in which that processing is carried on, the processing method in terms of acidity and ph control, and a list of foods so processed in each establishment. these forms are available from the lacf registration coordinator (hfs-618), center for food safety and applied nutrition, food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740, or at any food and drug administration district office. the completed form shall be submitted to the center for food safety and applied nutrition (hfs-565), food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740. commercial processors presently so engaged shall register within 120 days after the effective date of this regulation. foreign processors shall register within 120 days after the effective date of this regulation or before any offering of foods for import into the united states, whichever is later. commercial processors duly registered under this section shall notify the food and drug administration not later than 90 days after the commercial processor ceases or discontinues the manufacture, processing, or packing of the foods in any establishment, except that this notification shall not be required for temporary cessations due to the seasonal character of an establishment's production or by temporary conditions including, but not limited to, labor disputes, fire, or acts of god. 
(2) process filing. a commercial processor engaged in the processing of acidified foods shall, not later than 60 days after registration, and before packing any new product, provide the food and drug administration information on the scheduled processes including, as necessary, conditions for heat processing and control of ph, salt, sugar, and preservative levels and source and date of the establishment of the process, for each acidified food in each container size. filing of this information does not constitute approval of the information by the food and drug administration, and information concerning processes and other data so filed shall be regarded as trade secrets within the meaning of 21 u.s.c. 331(j) and 18 u.s.c. 1905. this information shall be submitted on form fda 2541a (food canning establishment process filing form for all methods except aseptic). forms are available from the lacf registration coordinator (hfs-618), center for food safety and applied nutrition, food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740, or at food and drug administration district office. the completed form shall be submitted to the lacf registration coordinator (hfs-618), center for food safety and applied nutrition, food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740. 
(3) process adherence and information (i) scheduling. a commercial processor engaged in processing acidified foods in any registered establishment shall process each food in conformity with at least the scheduled processes filed under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 
(ii) process and ph information availability. when requested by the food and drug administration in writing, a commercial processor engaged in the processing of acidified foods shall provide the food and drug administration with any process and procedure information that the food and drug administration deems necessary to determine the adequacy of the process. furnishing of this information does not constitute approval by the food and drug administration of the content of the information filed, and the information concerning processes and other data so furnished shall be considered trade secrets within the meaning of 21 u.s.c. 331(j) and 18 u.s.c. 1905 (to the extent that they qualify under those provisions). 
(d) a commercial processor engaged in the processing of acidified foods shall promptly report to the food and drug administration any instance of spoilage, process deviation, or contamination with microorganisms, the nature of which has potential health-endangering significance, where any lot of such food has in whole or in part entered distribution in commerce. 
(e) a commercial processor engaged in the processing of acidified foods shall prepare and maintain files on a current procedure for use for products under the processor's control, which that processor will ask the distributor to follow, including plans for recalling products that may be injurious to health; for identifying, collecting, ware-housing, and controlling products; for determining the effectiveness of recalls; for notifying the food and drug administration of any recalls; and for implementing recall programs. 
(f) all plant personnel involved in acidification, ph control, heat treatment, or other critical factors of the operation shall be under the operating supervision of a person who has attended a school approved by the commissioner for giving instruction in food-handling techniques, food protection principles, personal hygiene, plant sanitation practices, ph controls, and critical factors in acidification, and who has satisfactorily completed the prescribed course of instruction. the commissioner will consider students who have satisfactorily completed the required portions of the courses presented under  108.35 and part 113 of this chapter before march 16, 1979, as having satisfactorily completed the prescribed course of instruction under this section and part 114 of this chapter. the commissioner will not withhold approval of any school qualified to give such instruction. 
(g) a commercial processor engaged in the processing of acidified foods shall prepare, review, and retain at the processing plant or other reasonably accessible location for a period of 3 years from the date of manufacture, all records of processing, deviations in processing, ph, and other records specified in part 114 of this chapter. upon written demand during the course of a factory inspection under section 704 of the act by a duly authorized employee of the food and drug administration, a commercial processor shall permit the inspection and copying by that employee of these records to verify the ph and the adequacy of processing. 
(h) this section shall not apply to the commercial processing of any food processed under the continuous inspection of the meat and poultry inspection program of the food safety and inspection service of the department of agriculture under the federal meat inspection act (34 stat. 1256, as amended by 81 stat. 584 (21 u.s.c. 601 et seq. )) and the poultry products inspection act (71 stat. 441, as amended by 82 stat. 791 (21 u.s.c. 451 et seq. )). 
(i) wherever the commissioner finds that any state regulates the commercial processing of acidified foods under effective regulations specifying at least the requirements of part 114 of this chapter, the commissioner shall issue a notice stating that compliance with such state regulations shall constitute compliance with this section, if the state through its regulatory agency or each processor of acidified foods in the state files with the food and drug administration the registration information and the processing information prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. 
(j) imports. (1) this section applies to any foreign commercial processor engaged in the processing of acidified foods and offering those foods for import into the united states except that, in lieu of providing for the issuance of an emergency permit under paragraph (a) of this section, the commissioner will request the secretary of the treasury to refuse admission into the united states, under section 801 of the act, to any acidified foods which the commissioner determines, after investigation, may result in the distribution in interstate commerce of processed foods that may be injurious to health as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. 
(2) any acidified food so refused admission shall not be admitted until the commissioner determines that the commercial processor offering the food for import has complied with the requirements of this section and that the food is not injurious to health. to assist the commissioner in making this determination, a duly authorized employee of the food and drug administration shall be permitted to inspect the commercial processor's manufacturing, processing, and packing facilities. 
(k) the following information submitted to the food and drug administration under this section is not available for public disclosure unless it has been previously disclosed to the public as defined in  20.81 of this chapter or it relates to a product or ingredient that has been abandoned and no longer represents a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in  20.61 of this chapter: 
(1) manufacturing methods or processes, including quality control information. 
(2) production, sales, distribution, and similar information, except that any compilation of the information aggregated and prepared in a way that does not reveal information which is not available for public disclosure under this provision is available for public disclosure. 
(3) quantitative or semiquantitative formulas. 

