" 109.16 
ornamental and decorative ceramicware. 
(a) lead is a toxic metal that is used as a component of glazes and decorative decals on ceramics, including some ornamental and decorative ceramicware. the use of ornamental or decorative ceramicware to prepare, serve, or hold food may result in the leaching of lead from the glaze or decoration into the food. the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section are necessary to ensure that ornamental or decorative ceramicware bear adequate indications that they are not to be used for food-handling purposes. 
(b) ornamental or decorative ceramicware initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce on or after july 13, 1994 appears to be suitable for food use will be considered to be for food use unless: 
(1) it bears: 
(i) a conspicuous stick-on label on a surface clearly visible to consumers that states in legible script in letters at least 3.2 millimeters (0.125 inch) in height one of the following messages: not for food use. may poison food, not for food use. glaze contains lead. food use may result in lead poisoning, and not for food usefood consumed from this vessel may be harmful, and 
(ii) a conspicuous and legible permanent statement of the message selected from paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section molded or fired onto the exterior surface of the base or, when the ceramicware is not fired after decoration, permanently painted onto the exterior surface of the base. this permanent statement shall be in letters at least 3.2 millimeters (0.125 inch) in height, except that if insufficient space exists for the permanent statement in letters of such height, the statement shall be in the largest letters that will allow it to fit on the base of the piece, provided that the letters are at least 1.6 millimeters (0.062 inch) in height; or 
(2) a hole is bored through the potential food-contact surface. 
(c) in addition to steps required under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, the following optional information may be provided on the ware: 
(1) a further explanatory statement concerning the decorative nature of the piece, such as decorative or for decorative purposes only, may be used; however, such additional statement shall be placed after the required statement. 
(2) a symbol may be used to advise that a piece of ornamental or decorative ceramicware is not to be used with food, as illustrated below. 
er01ja93.368 
the circle of the above symbol should be at least 2.54 centimeters (1 inch) in diameter. the symbol may be used on the temporary label or applied to the base of the piece in the same manner as the permanent statement. 

