" 110.10 
personnel. 
the plant management shall take all reasonable measures and precautions to ensure the following: 
(a) disease control. any person who, by medical examination or supervisory observation, is shown to have, or appears to have, an illness, open lesion, including boils, sores, or infected wounds, or any other abnormal source of microbial contamination by which there is a reasonable possibility of food, food-contact surfaces, or food-packaging materials becoming contaminated, shall be excluded from any operations which may be expected to result in such contamination until the condition is corrected. personnel shall be instructed to report such health conditions to their supervisors. 
(b) cleanliness. all persons working in direct contact with food, food-contact surfaces, and food-packaging materials shall conform to hygienic practices while on duty to the extent necessary to protect against contamination of food. the methods for maintaining cleanliness include, but are not limited to: 
(1) wearing outer garments suitable to the operation in a manner that protects against the contamination of food, food-contact surfaces, or food-packaging materials. 
(2) maintaining adequate personal cleanliness. 
(3) washing hands thoroughly (and sanitizing if necessary to protect against contamination with undesirable microorganisms) in an adequate hand-washing facility before starting work, after each absence from the work station, and at any other time when the hands may have become soiled or contaminated. 
(4) removing all unsecured jewelry and other objects that might fall into food, equipment, or containers, and removing hand jewelry that cannot be adequately sanitized during periods in which food is manipulated by hand. if such hand jewelry cannot be removed, it may be covered by material which can be maintained in an intact, clean, and sanitary condition and which effectively protects against the contamination by these objects of the food, food-contact surfaces, or food-packaging materials. 
(5) maintaining gloves, if they are used in food handling, in an intact, clean, and sanitary condition. the gloves should be of an impermeable material. 
(6) wearing, where appropriate, in an effective manner, hair nets, headbands, caps, beard covers, or other effective hair restraints. 
(7) storing clothing or other personal belongings in areas other than where food is exposed or where equipment or utensils are washed. 
(8) confining the following to areas other than where food may be exposed or where equipment or utensils are washed: eating food, chewing gum, drinking beverages, or using tobacco. 
(9) taking any other necessary precautions to protect against contamination of food, food-contact surfaces, or food-packaging materials with microorganisms or foreign substances including, but not limited to, perspiration, hair, cosmetics, tobacco, chemicals, and medicines applied to the skin. 
(c) education and training. personnel responsible for identifying sanitation failures or food contamination should have a background of education or experience, or a combination thereof, to provide a level of competency necessary for production of clean and safe food. food handlers and supervisors should receive appropriate training in proper food handling techniques and food-protection principles and should be informed of the danger of poor personal hygiene and insanitary practices. 
(d) supervision. responsibility for assuring compliance by all personnel with all requirements of this part shall be clearly assigned to competent supervisory personnel. 

