" 110.3 
definitions. 
the definitions and interpretations of terms in section 201 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (the act) are applicable to such terms when used in this part. the following definitions shall also apply: 
(a) acid foods or acidified foods means foods that have an equilibrium ph of 4.6 or below. 
(b) adequate means that which is needed to accomplish the intended purpose in keeping with good public health practice. 
(c) batter means a semifluid substance, usually composed of flour and other ingredients, into which principal components of food are dipped or with which they are coated, or which may be used directly to form bakery foods. 
(d) blanching, except for tree nuts and peanuts, means a prepackaging heat treatment of foodstuffs for a sufficient time and at a sufficient temperature to partially or completely inactivate the naturally occurring enzymes and to effect other physical or biochemical changes in the food. 
(e) critical control point means a point in a food process where there is a high probability that improper control may cause, allow, or contribute to a hazard or to filth in the final food or decomposition of the final food. 
(f) food means food as defined in section 201(f) of the act and includes raw materials and ingredients. 
(g) food-contact surfaces are those surfaces that contact human food and those surfaces from which drainage onto the food or onto surfaces that contact the food ordinarily occurs during the normal course of operations. food-contact surfaces includes utensils and food-contact surfaces of equipment. 
(h) lot means the food produced during a period of time indicated by a specific code. 
(i) microorganisms means yeasts, molds, bacteria, and viruses and includes, but is not limited to, species having public health significance. the term undesirable microorganisms includes those microorganisms that are of public health significance, that subject food to decomposition, that indicate that food is contaminated with filth, or that otherwise may cause food to be adulterated within the meaning of the act. occasionally in these regulations, fda used the adjective microbial instead of using an adjectival phrase containing the word microorganism. 
(j) pest refers to any objectionable animals or insects including, but not limited to, birds, rodents, flies, and larvae. 
(k) plant means the building or facility or parts thereof, used for or in connection with the manufacturing, packaging, labeling, or holding of human food. 
(l) quality control operation means a planned and systematic procedure for taking all actions necessary to prevent food from being adulterated within the meaning of the act. 
(m) rework means clean, unadulterated food that has been removed from processing for reasons other than insanitary conditions or that has been successfully reconditioned by reprocessing and that is suitable for use as food. 
(n) safe-moisture level is a level of moisture low enough to prevent the growth of undesirable microorganisms in the finished product under the intended conditions of manufacturing, storage, and distribution. the maximum safe moisture level for a food is based on its water activity (a ). an a will be considered safe for a food if adequate data are available that demonstrate that the food at or below the given a will not support the growth of undesirable microorganisms. 
(o) sanitize means to adequately treat food-contact surfaces by a process that is effective in destroying vegetative cells of microorganisms of public health significance, and in substantially reducing numbers of other undesirable microorganisms, but without adversely affecting the product or its safety for the consumer. 
(p) shall is used to state mandatory requirements. 
(q) should is used to state recommended or advisory procedures or identify recommended equipment. 
(r) water activity (a ) is a measure of the free moisture in a food and is the quotient of the water vapor pressure of the substance divided by the vapor pressure of pure water at the same temperature.", 
