" 111.15 
what sanitation requirements apply to your physical plant and grounds? 
(a) grounds. you must keep the grounds of your physical plant in a condition that protects against the contamination of components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces. the methods for adequate ground maintenance include: 
(1) properly storing equipment, removing litter and waste, and cutting weeds or grass within the immediate vicinity of the physical plant so that it does not attract pests, harbor pests, or provide pests a place for breeding; 
(2) maintaining roads, yards, and parking lots so that they do not constitute a source of contamination in areas where components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces are exposed; 
(3) adequately draining areas that may contribute to the contamination of components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces by seepage, filth or any other extraneous materials, or by providing a breeding place for pests; 
(4) adequately operating systems for waste treatment and disposal so that they do not constitute a source of contamination in areas where components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces are exposed; and 
(5) if your plant grounds are bordered by grounds not under your control, and if those other grounds are not maintained in the manner described in this section, you must exercise care in the plant by inspection, extermination, or other means to exclude pests, dirt, and filth or any other extraneous materials that may be a source of contamination. 
(b) physical plant facilities. (1) you must maintain your physical plant in a clean and sanitary condition; and 
(2) you must maintain your physical plant in repair sufficient to prevent components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces from becoming contaminated. 
(c) cleaning compounds, sanitizing agents, pesticides, and other toxic materials. (1) you must use cleaning compounds and sanitizing agents that are free from microorganisms of public health significance and that are safe and adequate under the conditions of use. 
(2) you must not use or hold toxic materials in a physical plant in which components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces are manufactured or exposed, unless those materials are necessary as follows: 
(i) to maintain clean and sanitary conditions; 
(ii) for use in laboratory testing procedures; 
(iii) for maintaining or operating the physical plant or equipment; or 
(iv) for use in the plant's operations. 
(3) you must identify and hold cleaning compounds, sanitizing agents, pesticides, pesticide chemicals, and other toxic materials in a manner that protects against contamination of components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces. 
(d) pest control. (1) you must not allow animals or pests in any area of your physical plant. guard or guide dogs are allowed in some areas of your physical plant if the presence of the dogs will not result in contamination of components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces; 
(2) you must take effective measures to exclude pests from the physical plant and to protect against contamination of components, dietary supplements, and contact surfaces on the premises by pests; and 
(3) you must not use insecticides, fumigants, fungicides, or rodenticides, unless you take precautions to protect against the contamination of components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces. 
(e) water supply. (1) you must provide water that is safe and sanitary, at suitable temperatures, and under pressure as needed, for all uses where water does not become a component of the dietary supplement. 
(2) water that is used in a manner such that the water may become a component of the dietary supplement, e.g., when such water contacts components, dietary supplements, or any contact surface, must, at a minimum, comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements and not contaminate the dietary supplement. 
(f) plumbing. the plumbing in your physical plant must be of an adequate size and design and be adequately installed and maintained to: 
(1) carry sufficient amounts of water to required locations throughout the physical plant; 
(2) properly convey sewage and liquid disposable waste from your physical plant; 
(3) avoid being a source of contamination to components, dietary supplements, water supplies, or any contact surface, or creating an unsanitary condition; 
(4) provide adequate floor drainage in all areas where floors are subject to flooding-type cleaning or where normal operations release or discharge water or other liquid waste on the floor; and 
(5) not allow backflow from, or cross connection between, piping systems that discharge waste water or sewage and piping systems that carry water used for manufacturing dietary supplements, for cleaning contact surfaces, or for use in bathrooms or hand-washing facilities. 
(g) sewage disposal. you must dispose of sewage into an adequate sewage system or through other adequate means. 
(h) bathrooms. you must provide your employees with adequate, readily accessible bathrooms. the bathrooms must be kept clean and must not be a potential source of contamination to components, dietary supplements, or contact surfaces. 
(i) hand-washing facilities. you must provide hand-washing facilities that are designed to ensure that an employee's hands are not a source of contamination of components, dietary supplements, or any contact surface, by providing facilities that are adequate, convenient, and furnish running water at a suitable temperature. 
(j) trash disposal. you must convey, store, and dispose of trash to: 
(1) minimize the development of odors; 
(2) minimize the potential for the trash to attract, harbor, or become a breeding place for pests; 
(3) protect against contamination of components, dietary supplements, any contact surface, water supplies, and grounds surrounding your physical plant; and 
(4) control hazardous waste to prevent contamination of components, dietary supplements, and contact surfaces. 
(k) sanitation supervisors. you must assign one or more employees to supervise overall sanitation. each of these supervisors must be qualified by education, training, or experience to develop and supervise sanitation procedures.", 
