" 1140.3 
definitions. 
(a) cigarette. (1) means a product that: 
(i) is a tobacco product; and 
(ii) meets the definition of the term cigarette in section 3(1) of the federal cigarette labeling and advertising act; and 
(2) includes tobacco, in any form, that is functional in the product, which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette or as roll-your-own tobacco. 
(b) cigarette tobacco means any product that consists of loose tobacco that is intended for use by consumers in a cigarette. unless otherwise stated, the requirements applicable to cigarettes under this chapter shall also apply to cigarette tobacco. 
(c) distributor means any person who furthers the distribution of cigarettes or smokeless tobacco, whether domestic or imported, at any point from the original place of manufacture to the person who sells or distributes the product to individuals for personal consumption. common carriers are not considered distributors for the purposes of this part. 
(d) manufacturer means any person, including any repacker and/or relabeler, who manufactures, fabricates, assembles, processes, or labels a finished cigarette or smokeless tobacco product. 
(e) nicotine means the chemical substance named 3-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)pyridine or c[10]h[14]n[2], including any salt or complex of nicotine. 
(f) package means a pack, box, carton, or container of any kind in which cigarettes or smokeless tobacco are offered for sale, sold, or otherwise distributed to consumers. 
(g) point of sale means any location at which a consumer can purchase or otherwise obtain cigarettes or smokeless tobacco for personal consumption. 
(h) retailer means any person who sells cigarettes or smokeless tobacco to individuals for personal consumption, or who operates a facility where vending machines or self-service displays are permitted under this part. 
(i) smokeless tobacco means any tobacco product that consists of cut, ground, powdered, or leaf tobacco and that is intended to be placed in the oral or nasal cavity.", 
