" 1140.16 
conditions of manufacture, sale, and distribution. 
(a) restriction on product names. a manufacturer shall not use a trade or brand name of a nontobacco product as the trade or brand name for a cigarette or smokeless tobacco product, except for a tobacco product whose trade or brand name was on both a tobacco product and a nontobacco product that were sold in the united states on january 1, 1995. 
(b) minimum cigarette package size. except as otherwise provided under this section, no manufacturer, distributor, or retailer may sell or cause to be sold, or distribute or cause to be distributed, any cigarette package that contains fewer than 20 cigarettes. 
(c) vending machines, self-service displays, mail-order sales, and other impersonal modes of sale. (1) except as otherwise provided under this section, a retailer may sell cigarettes and smokeless tobacco only in a direct, face-to-face exchange between the retailer and the consumer. examples of methods of sale that are not permitted include vending machines and self-service displays. 
(2) exceptions. the following methods of sale are permitted: 
(i) mail-order sales, excluding mail-order redemption of coupons and distribution of free samples through the mail; and 
(ii) vending machines (including vending machines that sell packaged, single cigarettes) and self-service displays that are located in facilities where the retailer ensures that no person younger than 18 years of age is present, or permitted to enter, at any time. 
(d)(1) except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, no manufacturer, distributor, or retailer may distribute or cause to be distributed any free samples of cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or other tobacco products (as such term is defined in section 201 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act). 
(2)(i) paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not prohibit a manufacturer, distributor, or retailer from distributing or causing to be distributed free samples of smokeless tobacco in a qualified adult-only facility. 
(ii) paragraph (d)(2) of this section does not affect the authority of a state or local government to prohibit or otherwise restrict the distribution of free samples of smokeless tobacco. 
(iii) for purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, the term qualified adult-only facility means a facility or restricted area that: 
(a) requires each person present to provide to a law enforcement officer (whether on or off duty) or to a security guard licensed by a governmental entity government-issued identification showing a photograph and at least the minimum age established by applicable law for the purchase of smokeless tobacco; 
(b) does not sell, serve, or distribute alcohol; 
(c) is not located adjacent to or immediately across from (in any direction) a space that is used primarily for youth-oriented marketing, promotional, or other activities; 
(d) is a temporary structure constructed, designated, and operated as a distinct enclosed area for the purpose of distributing free samples of smokeless tobacco in accordance with this paragraph (d)(2) of this section; 
(e) is enclosed by a barrier that: 
) is constructed of, or covered with, an opaque material (except for entrances and exits); 
) extends from no more than 12 inches above the ground or floor (which area at the bottom of the barrier must be covered with material that restricts visibility but may allow airflow) to at least 8 feet above the ground or floor (or to the ceiling); and 
) prevents persons outside the qualified adult-only facility from seeing into the qualified adult-only facility, unless they make unreasonable efforts to do so; and 
(f) does not display on its exterior: 
) any tobacco product advertising; 
) a brand name other than in conjunction with words for an area or enclosure to identify an adult-only facility; or 
) any combination of words that would imply to a reasonable observer that the manufacturer, distributor, or retailer has a sponsorship that would violate  1140.34(c). 
(iv) distribution of samples of smokeless tobacco under paragraph (d)(2) of this section permitted to be taken out of the qualified adult-only facility shall be limited to one package per adult consumer containing no more than 0.53 ounces (15 grams) of smokeless tobacco. if such package of smokeless tobacco contains individual portions of smokeless tobacco, the individual portions of smokeless tobacco shall not exceed eight individual portions, and the collective weight of such individual portions shall not exceed 0.53 ounces (15 grams). any manufacturer, distributor, or retailer who distributes or causes to be distributed free samples also shall take reasonable steps to ensure that the amounts in this paragraph (d)(2)(iv) are limited to one such package per adult consumer per day. 
(3) notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2) of this section, no manufacturer, distributor, or retailer may distribute or cause to be distributed any free samples of smokeless tobacco: 
(i) to a sports team or entertainment group; or 
(ii) at any football, basketball, baseball, soccer, or hockey event or any other sporting or entertainment event determined by the secretary to be covered by paragraph (d)(3) of this section. 
(4) the secretary shall implement a program to ensure compliance with paragraph (d) of this section and submit a report to the congress on such compliance not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of the family smoking prevention and tobacco control act. 
(5) nothing in paragraph (d) of this section shall be construed to authorize any person to distribute or cause to be distributed any sample of a tobacco product to any individual who has not attained the minimum age established by applicable law for the purchase of such product. 
(e) restrictions on labels, labeling, and advertising. no manufacturer, distributor, or retailer may sell or distribute, or cause to be sold or distributed, cigarettes or smokeless tobacco with labels, labeling, or advertising not in compliance with subpart d of this part, and other applicable requirements.", 
