" 1141.3 
definitions. 
for the purposes of this part, 
cigarette means: 
(1) any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not containing tobacco; and 
(2) any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance containing tobacco which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette described in paragraph (1) of this definition. 
commerce means: 
(1) commerce between any state, the district of columbia, the commonwealth of puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands, american samoa, wake island, midway islands, kingman reef, or johnston island and any place outside thereof; 
(2) commerce between points in any state, the district of columbia, the commonwealth of puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands, american samoa, wake island, midway islands, kingman reef, or johnston island, but through any place outside thereof; or 
(3) commerce wholly within the district of columbia, guam, the u.s. virgin islands, american samoa, wake island, midway island, kingman reef, or johnston island. 
distributor means any person who furthers the distribution of cigarettes at any point from the original place of manufacture to the person who sells or distributes the product to individuals for personal consumption. common carriers are not considered distributors for the purposes of this part. 
front panel and rear panel mean the two largest sides or surfaces of the package. 
importer means any person who imports any cigarette that is intended for sale or distribution to consumers in the united states. 
manufacturer means any person, including any repacker or relabeler, who manufactures, fabricates, assembles, processes, or labels a finished cigarette product. 
package means a pack, box, carton, or container of any kind in which cigarettes are offered for sale, sold, or otherwise distributed to consumers. 
person means an individual, partnership, corporation, or any other business or legal entity. 
required warning means the combination of one of the textual warning statements and its accompanying color graphic, which are set forth in cigarette required warnings, which is incorporated by reference at  1141.12. 
retailer means any person who sells cigarettes to individuals for personal consumption, or who operates a facility where vending machines or self-service displays of cigarettes are permitted. 
united states, when used in a geographical sense, includes the several states, the district of columbia, the commonwealth of puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands, american samoa, wake island, midway islands, kingman reef, and johnston island. the term state includes any political division of any state.", 
