" 12.45 
notice of participation. 
(a) within 30 days after publication of the notice of hearing under  12.35, a person desiring to participate in a hearing is to file with the division of dockets management under  10.20 a notice of participation in the following form: 
(date) division of dockets management, food and drug administration, department of health and human services, 5630 fishers lane, rm. 1061, rockville, md 20852. notice of participation docket no. __ under 21 cfr part 12, please enter the participation of: (name) (street address) (city and state) (telephone number) service on the above will be accepted by: (name) (street address) (city and state) (telephone number) the following statements are made as part of this notice of participation: a. specific interests. (a statement of the specific interest of the person in the proceeding, including the specific issues of fact concerning which the person desires to be heard. this part need not be completed by a party to the proceeding.) b. commitment to participate. (a statement that the person will present documentary evidence or testimony at the hearing and will comply with the requirements of 21 cfr 12.85, or, in the case of a hearing before a public board of inquiry, with the requirements of 21 cfr 13.25.) (signed) 
(b) an amendment to a notice of participation should be filed with the division of dockets management and served on all participants. 
(c) no person may participate in a hearing who has not filed a written notice of participation or whose participation has been stricken under paragraph (e) of this section. 
(d) the presiding officer may permit the late filing of a notice of participation upon a showing of good cause. 
(e) the presiding officer may strike the participation of a person for nonparticipation in the hearing or failure to comply with any requirement of this subpart, e.g., disclosure of information as required by  12.85 or the prehearing order issued under  12.92. any person whose participation is stricken may petition the commissioner for interlocutory review. 

