" 1250.3 
definitions. 
as used in this part, terms shall have the following meaning: 
(a) bactericidal treatment. the application of a method or substance for the destruction of pathogens and other organisms as set forth in  1240.10 of this chapter. 
(b) communicable diseases. illnesses due to infectious agents or their toxic products, which may be transmitted from a reservoir to a susceptible host either directly as from an infected person or animal or indirectly through the agency of an intermediate plant or animal host, vector, or the inanimate environment. 
(c) communicable period. the period or periods during which the etiologic agent may be transferred directly or indirectly from the body of the infected person or animal to the body of another. 
(d) contamination. the presence of a certain amount of undesirable substance or material, which may contain pathogenic microorganisms. 
(e) conveyance. conveyance means any land or air carrier, or any vessel as defined in paragraph (m) of this section. 
(f) existing vessel. any vessel the construction of which was started prior to the effective date of the regulations in this part. 
(g) garbage. (1) the solid animal and vegetable waste, together with the natural moisture content, resulting from the handling, preparation, or consumption of foods in houses, restaurants, hotels, kitchens, and similar establishments, or (2) any other food waste containing pork. 
(h) interstate traffic. (1) the movement of any conveyance or the transportation of persons or property, including any portion of such movement or transportation which is entirely within a state or possession, (i) from a point of origin in any state or possession to a point of destination in any other state or possession, or (ii) between a point of origin and a point of destination in the same state or possession but through any other state, possession, or contiguous foreign country. 
(2) interstate traffic does not include the following: 
(i) the movement of any conveyance which is solely for the purpose of unloading persons or property transported from a foreign country, or loading persons or property for transportation to a foreign country. 
(ii) the movement of any conveyance which is solely for the purpose of effecting its repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or storage. 
(i) possession. any of the possessions of the united states, including puerto rico and the virgin islands. 
(j) potable water. water which meets the standards prescribed in the environmental protection agency's primary drinking water regulations as set forth in 40 cfr part 141 and the food and drug administration's sanitation regulations as set forth in this part and part 1240 of this chapter. 
(k) state. any state, the district of columbia, puerto rico and the virgin islands. 
(l) utensil. includes any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, containers, or equipment with which food or drink comes in contact during storage, preparation, or serving. 
(m) vessel. any passenger-carrying, cargo, or towing vessel exclusive of: 
(1) fishing boats including those used for shell-fishing; 
(2) tugs which operate only locally in specific harbors and adjacent waters; 
(3) barges without means of self-propulsion; 
(4) construction-equipment boats and dredges; and 
(5) sand and gravel dredging and handling boats. 
(n) wash water. water suitable for domestic uses other than for drinking and culinary purposes, and medical care purposes excluding hydrotherapy. 
(o) shellfish. any fresh, frozen, or incompletely cooked oysters, clams, or mussels, either shucked or in the shell, and any fresh, frozen, or incompletely cooked edible products thereof. 

