" 1271.270 
records. 
(a) general. you must maintain records concurrently with the performance of each step required in this subpart and subpart c of this part. any requirement in this part that an action be documented involves the creation of a record, which is subject to the requirements of this section. all records must be accurate, indelible, and legible. the records must identify the person performing the work and the dates of the various entries, and must be as detailed as necessary to provide a complete history of the work performed and to relate the records to the particular hct/p involved. 
(b) records management system. you must establish and maintain a records management system relating to core cgtp requirements. under this system, records pertaining to a particular hct/p must be maintained in such a way as to facilitate review of the hct/ps history before making it available for distribution and, if necessary, subsequent to the hct/ps release as part of a followup evaluation or investigation. records pertinent to the manufacture of hct/ps (e.g., labeling and packaging procedures, and equipment logs) must also be maintained and organized under the records management system. if records are maintained in more than one location, then the records management system must be designed to ensure prompt identification, location, and retrieval of all records. 
(c) methods of retention. you may maintain records required under this subpart electronically, as original paper records, or as true copies such as photocopies, microfiche, or microfilm. equipment that is necessary to make the records available and legible, such as computer and reader equipment, must be readily available. records stored in electronic systems must be backed up. 
(d) length of retention. you must retain all records for 10 years after their creation, unless stated otherwise in this part. however, you must retain the records pertaining to a particular hct/p at least 10 years after the date of its administration, or if the date of administration is not known, then at least 10 years after the date of the hct/ps distribution, disposition, or expiration, whichever is latest. you must retain records for archived specimens of dura mater for 10 years after the appropriate disposition of the specimens. 
(e) contracts and agreements. you must maintain the name and address and a list of the responsibilities of any establishment that performs a manufacturing step for you. this information must be available during an inspection conducted under  1271.400.", 
