" 1271.25 
what information is required for establishment registration and hct/p listing? 
(a) your establishment registration form fda 3356 must include: 
(1) the legal name(s) of the establishment; 
(2) each location, including the street address of the establishment and the postal service zip code; 
(3) the name, address, and title of the reporting official; and 
(4) a dated signature by the reporting official affirming that all information contained in the establishment registration and hct/p listing form is true and accurate, to the best of his or her knowledge. 
(b) your hct/p listing must include all hct/p's (including the established name and the proprietary name) that you recover, process, store, label, package, distribute, or for which you perform donor screening or testing. you must also state whether each hct/p meets the criteria set out in  1271.10. 
(c) your hct/p listing update must include: 
(1) a list of each hct/p that you have begun recovering, processing, storing, labeling, packaging, distributing, or for which you have begun donor screening or testing, that has not been included in any list previously submitted. you must provide all of the information required by  1271.25(b) for each new hct/p. 
(2) a list of each hct/p formerly listed in accordance with  1271.21(a) for which you have discontinued recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging, distribution, or donor screening or testing, including for each hct/p so listed, the identity by established name and proprietary name, and the date of discontinuance. we request but do not require that you include the reason for discontinuance with this information. 
(3) a list of each hct/p for which a notice of discontinuance was submitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and for which you have resumed recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging, distribution, or donor screening or testing, including the identity by established name and proprietary name, the date of resumption, and any other information required by  1271.25(b) not previously submitted. 
(4) any material change in any information previously submitted. material changes include any change in information submitted on form fda 3356, such as whether the hct/p meets the criteria set out in  1271.10.", 
