" 1271.85 
what donor testing is required for different types of cells and tissues? 
(a) all donors. to adequately and appropriately reduce the risk of transmission of relevant communicable diseases, and except as provided under  1271.90, you must test a specimen from the donor of cells or tissue, whether viable or nonviable, for evidence of infection due to relevant communicable disease agents, including: 
(1) human immunodeficiency virus, type 1; 
(2) human immunodeficiency virus, type 2; 
(3) hepatitis b virus; 
(4) hepatitis c virus; and 
(5) treponema pallidum. 
(b) donors of viable, leukocyte-rich cells or tissue. in addition to the relevant communicable disease agents for which testing is required under paragraph (a) of this section, and except as provided under  1271.90, 
(1) you must test a specimen from the donor of viable, leukocyte-rich cells or tissue to adequately and appropriately reduce the risk of transmission of relevant cell-associated communicable diseases, including: 
(i) human t-lymphotropic virus, type i; and 
(ii) human t-lymphotropic virus, type ii. 
(2) you must test a specimen from the donor of viable, leukocyte-rich cells or tissue for evidence of infection due to cytomegalovirus (cmv), to adequately and appropriately reduce the risk of transmission. you must establish and maintain a standard operating procedure governing the release of an hct/p from a donor whose specimen tests reactive for cmv. 
(c) donors of reproductive cells or tissue. in addition to the communicable disease agents for which testing is required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable, and except as provided under  1271.90, you must test a specimen from the donor of reproductive cells or tissue to adequately and appropriately reduce the risk of transmission of relevant communicable disease agents of the genitourinary tract. such testing must include testing for the communicable disease agents listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. however, if the reproductive cells or tissues are recovered by a method that ensures freedom from contamination of the cells or tissue by infectious disease organisms that may be present in the genitourinary tract, then testing for the communicable disease agents listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section is not required. communicable disease agents of the genitourinary tract for which you must test include: 
(1) chlamydia trachomatis ; and 
(2) neisseria gonorrhea. 
(d) retesting anonymous semen donors. except as provided under  1271.90 and except for directed reproductive donors as defined in  1271.3(l), at least 6 months after the date of donation of semen from anonymous donors, you must collect a new specimen from the donor and test it for evidence of infection due to the communicable disease agents for which testing is required under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. 
(e) dura mater. for donors of dura mater, you must perform an adequate assessment designed to detect evidence of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.", 
