" 1271.60 
what quarantine and other requirements apply before the donor-eligibility determination is complete? 
(a) quarantine. you must keep an hct/p in quarantine, as defined in  1271.3(q), until completion of the donor-eligibility determination required by  1271.50. you must quarantine semen from anonymous donors until the retesting required under  1271.85(d) is complete. 
(b) identification of hct/ps in quarantine. you must clearly identify as quarantined an hct/p that is in quarantine pending completion of a donor-eligibility determination. the quarantined hct/p must be easily distinguishable from hct/ps that are available for release and distribution. 
(c) shipping of hct/ps in quarantine. if you ship an hct/p before completion of the donor-eligibility determination, you must keep it in quarantine during shipment. the hct/p must be accompanied by records: 
(1) identifying the donor (e.g., by a distinct identification code affixed to the hct/p container); 
(2) stating that the donor-eligibility determination has not been completed; and 
(3) stating that the product must not be implanted, transplanted, infused, or transferred until completion of the donor-eligibility determination, except under the terms of paragraph (d) of this section. 
(d) use in cases of urgent medical need. (1) this subpart c does not prohibit the implantation, transplantation, infusion, or transfer of an hct/p from a donor for whom the donor-eligibility determination is not complete if there is a documented urgent medical need for the hct/p, as defined in  1271.3(u). 
(2) if you make an hct/p available for use under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, you must prominently label it not evaluated for infectious substances, and  warning: advise patient of communicable disease risks. the following information must accompany the hct/p: 
(i) the results of any donor screening required under  1271.75 that has been completed; 
(ii) the results of any testing required under  1271.80 or 1271.85 that has been completed; and 
(iii) a list of any screening or testing required under  1271.75, 1271.80 or 1271.85 that has not yet been completed. 
(3) if you are the establishment that manufactured an hct/p used under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, you must document that you notified the physician using the hct/p that the testing and screening were not complete. 
(4) in the case of an hct/p used for an urgent medical need under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, you must complete the donor-eligibility determination during or after the use of the hct/p, and you must inform the physician of the results of the determination.", 
