" 1300.04 
definitions relating to the dispensing of controlled substances by means of the internet. 
(a) any term not defined in this part or elsewhere in this chapter shall have the definition set forth in sections 102 and 309 of the act (21 u.s.c. 802, 829). 
(b) the term covering practitioner means, with respect to a patient, a practitioner who conducts a medical evaluation (other than an in-person medical evaluation) at the request of a practitioner who: 
(1) has conducted at least one in-person medical evaluation of the patient or an evaluation of the patient through the practice of telemedicine, within the previous 24 months; and 
(2) is temporarily unavailable to conduct the evaluation of the patient. 
(c) the term deliver, distribute, or dispense by means of the internet refers, respectively, to any delivery, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance that is caused or facilitated by means of the internet. 
(d) the term filling new prescriptions for controlled substances in schedule iii, iv, or v means filling a prescription for an individual for a controlled substance in schedule iii, iv, or v, if: 
(1) the pharmacy dispensing that prescription has previously dispensed to the patient a controlled substance other than by means of the internet and pursuant to the valid prescription of a practitioner that meets the applicable requirements of subsections (b) and (c) of section 309 of the act (21 u.s.c. 829) and  1306.21 and 1306.22 of this chapter (for purposes of this definition, such a prescription shall be referred to as the original prescription); 
(2) the pharmacy contacts the practitioner who issued the original prescription at the request of that individual to determine whether the practitioner will authorize the issuance of a new prescription for that individual for the controlled substance described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section ( i.e. , the same controlled substance as described in paragraph (d)(1)); and 
(3) the practitioner, acting in the usual course of professional practice, determines there is a legitimate medical purpose for the issuance of the new prescription. 
(e) the term homepage means the opening or main page or screen of the web site of an online pharmacy that is viewable on the internet. 
(f) the term in-person medical evaluation means a medical evaluation that is conducted with the patient in the physical presence of the practitioner, without regard to whether portions of the evaluation are conducted by other health professionals. nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to imply that one in-person medical evaluation demonstrates that a prescription has been issued for a legitimate medical purpose within the usual course of professional practice. 
(g) the term internet means collectively the myriad of computer and telecommunications facilities, including equipment and operating software, which comprise the interconnected worldwide network of networks that employ the transmission control protocol/internet protocol, or any predecessor or successor protocol to such protocol, to communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio. 
(h) the term online pharmacy means a person, entity, or internet site, whether in the united states or abroad, that knowingly or intentionally delivers, distributes, or dispenses, or offers or attempts to deliver, distribute, or dispense, a controlled substance by means of the internet. the term includes, but is not limited to, a pharmacy that has obtained a modification of its registration pursuant to  1301.13 and 1301.19 of this chapter that currently authorizes it to dispense controlled substances by means of the internet, regardless of whether the pharmacy is currently dispensing controlled substances by means of the internet. the term does not include: 
(1) manufacturers or distributors registered under subsection (a), (b), (d), or (e) of section 303 of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(a), (b), (d), or (e)) ( 1301.13 of this chapter) who do not dispense controlled substances to an unregistered individual or entity; 
(2) nonpharmacy practitioners who are registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) ( 1301.13 of this chapter) and whose activities are authorized by that registration; 
(3) any hospital or other medical facility that is operated by an agency of the united states (including the armed forces), provided such hospital or other facility is registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) ( 1301.13 of this chapter); 
(4) a health care facility owned or operated by an indian tribe or tribal organization, only to the extent such facility is carrying out a contract or compact under the indian self-determination and education assistance act; 
(5) any agent or employee of any hospital or facility referred to in paragraph (h)(3) or (h)(4) of this section, provided such agent or employee is lawfully acting in the usual course of business or employment, and within the scope of the official duties of such agent or employee, with such hospital or facility, and, with respect to agents or employees of health care facilities specified in paragraph (h)(4) of this section, only to the extent such individuals are furnishing services pursuant to the contracts or compacts described in such paragraph; 
(6) mere advertisements that do not attempt to facilitate an actual transaction involving a controlled substance; 
(7) a person, entity, or internet site that is not in the united states and does not facilitate the delivery, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance by means of the internet to any person in the united states; 
(8) a pharmacy registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) ( 1301.13 of this chapter) whose dispensing of controlled substances via the internet consists solely of: 
(i) refilling prescriptions for controlled substances in schedule iii, iv, or v, as defined in paragraph (k) of this section; or 
(ii) filling new prescriptions for controlled substances in schedule iii, iv, or v, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section; 
(9)(i) any registered pharmacy whose delivery, distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances by means of the internet consists solely of filling prescriptions that were electronically prescribed in a manner authorized by this chapter and otherwise in compliance with the act. 
(ii) a registered pharmacy will be deemed to meet this exception if, in view of all of its activities other than those referred to in paragraph (h)(9)(i) of this section, it would fall outside the definition of an online pharmacy; or 
(10)(i) any registered pharmacy whose delivery, distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances by means of the internet consists solely of the transmission of prescription information between a pharmacy and an automated dispensing system located in a long term care facility when the registration of the automated dispensing system is held by that pharmacy as described in  1301.17 and 1301.27 and the pharmacy is otherwise complying with this chapter. 
(ii) a registered pharmacy will be deemed to meet this exception if, in view of all of its activities other than those referred to in paragraph (h)(10)(i) of this section, it would fall outside the definition of an online pharmacy. 
(i) effective january 15, 2010, the term practice of telemedicine means the practice of medicine in accordance with applicable federal and state laws by a practitioner (other than a pharmacist) who is at a location remote from the patient and is communicating with the patient, or health care professional who is treating the patient, using a telecommunications system referred to in section 1834(m) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395m(m)), which practice falls within a category listed in the following paragraphs (i)(1) through (7): 
(1) treatment in a hospital or clinic. the practice of telemedicine is being conducted while the patient is being treated by, and physically located in, a hospital or clinic registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) by a practitioner acting in the usual course of professional practice, who is acting in accordance with applicable state law, and who is registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) in the state in which the patient is located, unless the practitioner: 
(i) is exempted from such registration in all states under section 302(d) of the act (21 u.s.c. 822(d); or 
(ii) is an employee or contractor of the department of veterans affairs who is acting in the scope of such employment or contract, and registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) in any state or is utilizing the registration of a hospital or clinic operated by the department of veterans affairs registered under section 303(f); 
(2) treatment in the physical presence of a practitioner. the practice of telemedicine is being conducted while the patient is being treated by, and in the physical presence of, a practitioner acting in the usual course of professional practice, who is acting in accordance with applicable state law, and who is registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) in the state in which the patient is located, unless the practitioner: 
(i) is exempted from such registration in all states under section 302(d) of the act (21 u.s.c. 822(d)); or 
(ii) is an employee or contractor of the department of veterans affairs who is acting in the scope of such employment or contract, and registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) in any state or is using the registration of a hospital or clinic operated by the department of veterans affairs registered under section 303(f); 
(3) indian health service or tribal organization. the practice of telemedicine is being conducted by a practitioner who is an employee or contractor of the indian health service, or is working for an indian tribe or tribal organization under its contract or compact with the indian health service under the indian self-determination and education assistance act; who is acting within the scope of the employment, contract, or compact; and who is designated as an internet eligible controlled substances provider by the secretary of health and human services under section 311(g)(2) of the act (21 u.s.c. 831(g)(2)); 
(4) public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services. the practice of telemedicine is being conducted during a public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d), and involves patients located in such areas, and such controlled substances, as the secretary of health and human services, with the concurrence of the administrator, designates, provided that such designation shall not be subject to the procedures prescribed by the administrative procedure act (5 u.s.c. 551-559 and 701-706); 
(5) special registration. the practice of telemedicine is being conducted by a practitioner who has obtained from the administrator a special registration under section 311(h) of the act (21 u.s.c. 831(h)); 
(6) department of veterans affairs medical emergency. the practice of telemedicine is being conducted: 
(i) in a medical emergency situation: 
(a) that prevents the patient from being in the physical presence of a practitioner registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) who is an employee or contractor of the veterans health administration acting in the usual course of business and employment and within the scope of the official duties or contract of that employee or contractor; 
(b) that prevents the patient from being physically present at a hospital or clinic operated by the department of veterans affairs registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)); 
(c) during which the primary care practitioner of the patient or a practitioner otherwise practicing telemedicine within the meaning of this paragraph is unable to provide care or consultation; and 
(d) that requires immediate intervention by a health care practitioner using controlled substances to prevent what the practitioner reasonably believes in good faith will be imminent and serious clinical consequences, such as further injury or death; and 
(ii) by a practitioner that: 
(a) is an employee or contractor of the veterans health administration acting within the scope of that employment or contract; 
(b) is registered under section 303(f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 823(f)) in any state or is utilizing the registration of a hospital or clinic operated by the department of veterans affairs registered under section 303(f); and 
(c) issues a controlled substance prescription in this emergency context that is limited to a maximum of a five-day supply which may not be extended or refilled; or 
(7) other circumstances specified by regulation. the practice of telemedicine is being conducted under any other circumstances that the administrator and the secretary of health and human services have jointly, by regulation, determined to be consistent with effective controls against diversion and otherwise consistent with the public health and safety. 
(j) temporary definition of practice of telemedicine. prior to january 15, 2010, or as otherwise specified by regulation prior to that date, instead of the definition in paragraph (i), the term practice of telemedicine means the practice of medicine in accordance with applicable federal and state laws by a practitioner (as that term is defined in section 102 of the act (21 u.s.c. 802)) (other than a pharmacist) who is at a location remote from the patient and is communicating with the patient, or health care professional who is treating the patient, using a telecommunications system referred to in section 1834(m) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395m(m)), if the practitioner is using an interactive telecommunications system that satisfies the requirements of section 410.78(a)(3) of title 42, code of federal regulations. 
(k) the term refilling prescriptions for controlled substances in schedule iii, iv, or v: 
(1) means the dispensing of a controlled substance in schedule iii, iv, or v in accordance with refill instructions issued by a practitioner as part of a valid prescription that meets the requirements of subsections (b) and (c) of section 309 of the act (21 u.s.c. 829) and  1306.21 and 1306.22 of this chapter, as appropriate; and 
(2) does not include the issuance of a new prescription to an individual for a controlled substance that individual was previously prescribed. 
(l)(1) the term valid prescription means a prescription that is issued for a legitimate medical purpose in the usual course of professional practice by: 
(i) a practitioner who has conducted at least one in-person medical evaluation of the patient; or 
(ii) a covering practitioner. 
(2) nothing in this paragraph (l) shall be construed to imply that one in-person medical evaluation demonstrates that a prescription has been issued for a legitimate medical purpose within the usual course of professional practice. 

