" 1303.13 
adjustments of aggregate production quotas. 
(a) the administrator may at any time increase or reduce the aggregate production quota for a basic class of controlled substance listed in schedule i or ii which he has previously fixed pursuant to  1303.11. 
(b) in determining to adjust the aggregate production quota, the administrator shall consider the following factors: 
(1) changes in the demand for that class, changes in the national rate of net disposal of the class, and changes in the rate of net disposal of the class by registrants holding individual manufacturing quotas for that class; 
(2) whether any increased demand for that class, the national and/or individual rates of net disposal of that class are temporary, short term, or long term; 
(3) whether any increased demand for that class can be met through existing inventories, increased individual manufacturing quotas, or increased importation, without increasing the aggregate production quota, taking into account production delays and the probability that other individual manufacturing quotas may be suspended pursuant to  1303.24(b); 
(4) whether any decreased demand for that class will result in excessive inventory accumulation by all persons registered to handle that class (including manufacturers, distributors, practitioners, importers, and exporters), notwithstanding the possibility that individual manufacturing quotas may be suspended pursuant to  1303.24(b) or abandoned pursuant to  1303.27; 
(5) other factors affecting medical, scientific, research, and industrial needs in the united states and lawful export requirements, as the administrator finds relevant, including changes in the currently accepted medical use in treatment with the class or the substances which are manufactured from it, the economic and physical availability of raw materials for use in manufacturing and for inventory purposes, yield and stability problems, potential disruptions to production (including possible labor strikes), and recent unforeseen emergencies such as floods and fires. 
(c) the administrator in the event he determines to increase or reduce the aggregate production quota for a basic class of controlled substance, shall publish in the federal register general notice of an adjustment in the aggregate production quota for that class determined by him under this section. a copy of said notice shall be mailed simultaneously to each person registered as a bulk manufacturer of the basic class. the administrator shall permit any interested person to file written comments on or objections to the proposal and shall designate in the notice the time during which such filings may be made. the administrator may, but shall not be required to, hold a public hearing on one or more issues raised by the comments and objections filed with him. in the event the administrator decides to hold such a hearing, he shall publish notice of the hearing in the federal register, which notice shall summarize the issues to be heard and shall set the time for the hearing, which shall not be less than 10 days after the date of publication of the notice. after consideration of any comments or objections, or after a hearing if one is ordered by the administrator, the administrator shall issue and publish in the federal register his final order determining the aggregate production for the basic class of controlled substance. the order shall include the findings of fact and conclusions of law upon which the order is based. the order shall specify the date on which it shall take effect. a copy of said order shall be mailed simultaneously to each person registered as a bulk manufacturer of the basic class. 

