" 131.180 
half-and-half. 
(a) description. half-and-half is the food consisting of a mixture of milk and cream which contains not less than 10.5 percent but less than 18 percent milkfat. it is pasteurized or ultra-pasteurized, and may be homogenized. 
(b) optional ingredients. the following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used: 
(1) emulsifiers. 
(2) stabilizers. 
(3) nutritive sweeteners. 
(4) characterizing flavoring ingredients (with or without coloring) as follows: 
(i) fruit and fruit juice (including concentrated fruit and fruit juice). 
(ii) natural and artificial food flavoring. 
(c) methods of analysis. the milkfat content is determined by the method prescribed in official methods of analysis of the association of official analytical chemists, 13th ed. (1980), in sections 16.156 and 16.059, under fat, roese-gottlieb methodofficial final action, which is incorporated by reference. copies may be obtained from the aoac international, 481 north frederick ave., suite 500, gaithersburg, md 20877, at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(d) nomenclature. the name of the food is half-and-half. the name of the food shall be accompanied on the label by a declaration indicating the presence of any characterizing flavoring, as specified in  101.22 of this chapter. 
(1) the following terms shall accompany the name of the food wherever it appears on the principal display panel or panels of the label in letters not less than one-half the height of the letters used in such name: 
(i) the word ultra-pasteurized if the food has been ultra-pasteurized. 
(ii) the word sweetened if no characterizing flavor ingredients are used, but nutritive sweetener is added. 
(2) the following terms may appear on the label: 
(i) the word pasteurized if the food has been pasteurized. 
(ii) the word homogenized if the food has been homogenized. 
(e) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

