" 131.149 
dry cream. 
(a) description. dry cream is the product obtained by removal of water only from pasteurized milk or cream or a mixture thereof, which may have been homogenized. alternatively, dry cream may be obtained by blending dry milks as defined in  131.125(a) and 131.147(a) with dry cream as appropriate: provided, that the resulting product is equivalent in composition to that obtained by the method described in the first sentence of this paragraph. it contains not less than 40 percent but less than 75 percent by weight of milkfat on an as is basis. it contains not more than 5 percent by weight of moisture on a milk solids not fat basis. 
(b) optional ingredients. the following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used: 
(1) emulsifiers. 
(2) stabilizers. 
(3) anticaking agents. 
(4) antioxidants. 
(5) nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners. 
(6) characterizing flavoring ingredients, with or without coloring, as follows: 
(i) fruit and fruit juice, including concentrated fruit and fruit juice. 
(ii) natural and artificial food flavoring. 
(c) methods of analysis. the following referenced methods of analysis are from official methods of analysis of the association of official analytical chemists, 13th ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. copies may be obtained from the aoac international, 481 north frederick ave., suite 500, gaithersburg, md 20877, or may be examined at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(1) milkfat contentfat in dried milkofficial final action, sections 16.199-16.200. 
(2) moisture contentmoistureofficial final action, section 16.192. 
(d) nomenclature. the name of the food is dry cream. the name of the food shall appear on the principal display panel of the label in type of uniform size, style, and color. the name of the food shall be accompanied by a declaration indicating the presence of any characterizing flavoring as specified in  101.22 of this chapter. the following terms shall accompany the name of the food wherever it appears on the principal display panel or panels of the label, in letters not less than one-half of the height of the letters used in such name: 
(1) the phrase contains _% milkfat, the blank to be filled in with the whole number closest to the actual fat content of the food. 
(2) the word sweetened if no characterizing flavoring ingredients are used but nutritive carbohydrate sweetener is added. 
(e) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

