" 1311.110 
requirements for obtaining an authentication credentialindividual practitioners eligible to use an electronic prescription application of an institutional practitioner. 
(a) for any registrant or person exempted from the requirement of registration under  1301.22(c) of this chapter who is eligible to use the institutional practitioner's electronic prescription application to sign prescriptions for controlled substances, the entity within a dea-registered institutional practitioner that grants that individual practitioner privileges at the institutional practitioner (e.g., a hospital credentialing office) may conduct identity proofing and authorize the issuance of the authentication credential. that entity must do the following: 
(1) ensure that photographic identification issued by the federal government or a state government matches the person presenting the identification. 
(2) ensure that the individual practitioner's state authorization to practice and, where applicable, state authorization to prescribe controlled substances, is current and in good standing. 
(3) either ensure that the individual practitioner's dea registration is current and in good standing or ensure that the institutional practitioner has granted the individual practitioner exempt from the requirement of registration under  1301.22 of this chapter privileges to prescribe controlled substances using the institutional practitioner's dea registration number. 
(4) if the individual practitioner is an employee of a health care facility that is operated by the department of veterans affairs, confirm that the individual practitioner has been duly appointed to practice at that facility by the secretary of the department of veterans affairs pursuant to 38 u.s.c. 7401-7408. 
(5) if the individual practitioner is working at a health care facility operated by the department of veterans affairs on a contractual basis pursuant to 38 u.s.c. 8153 and, in the performance of his duties, prescribes controlled substances, confirm that the individual practitioner meets the criteria for eligibility for appointment under 38 u.s.c. 7401-7408 and is prescribing controlled substances under the registration of such facility. 
(b) an institutional practitioner that elects to conduct identity proofing must provide authorization to issue the authentication credentials to a separate entity within the institutional practitioner or to an outside credential service provider or certification authority that meets the requirements of  1311.105(a). 
(c) when an institutional practitioner is conducting identity proofing and submitting information to a credential service provider or certification authority to authorize the issuance of authentication credentials, the institutional practitioner must meet any requirements that the credential service provider or certification authority imposes on entities that serve as trusted agents. 
(d) an institutional practitioner that elects to conduct identity proofing and authorize the issuance of the authentication credential as provided in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section must do so in a manner consistent with the institutional practitioner's general obligation to maintain effective controls against diversion. failure to meet this obligation may result in remedial action consistent with  1301.36 of this chapter. 
(e) an institutional practitioner that elects to conduct identity proofing must retain a record of the identity-proofing. an institutional practitioner that elects to issue the two-factor authentication credential must retain a record of the issuance of the credential.", 
