" 1311.102 
practitioner responsibilities. 
(a) the practitioner must retain sole possession of the hard token, where applicable, and must not share the password or other knowledge factor, or biometric information, with any other person. the practitioner must not allow any other person to use the token or enter the knowledge factor or other identification means to sign prescriptions for controlled substances. failure by the practitioner to secure the hard token, knowledge factor, or biometric information may provide a basis for revocation or suspension of registration pursuant to section 304(a)(4) of the act (21 u.s.c. 824(a)(4)). 
(b) the practitioner must notify the individuals designated under  1311.125 or  1311.130 within one business day of discovery that the hard token has been lost, stolen, or compromised or the authentication protocol has been otherwise compromised. a practitioner who fails to comply with this provision may be held responsible for any controlled substance prescriptions written using his two-factor authentication credential. 
(c) if the practitioner is notified by an intermediary or pharmacy that an electronic prescription was not successfully delivered, as provided in  1311.170, he must ensure that any paper or oral prescription (where permitted) issued as a replacement of the original electronic prescription indicates that the prescription was originally transmitted electronically to a particular pharmacy and that the transmission failed. 
(d) before initially using an electronic prescription application to sign and transmit controlled substance prescriptions, the practitioner must determine that the third-party auditor or certification organization has found that the electronic prescription application records, stores, and transmits the following accurately and consistently: 
(1) the information required for a prescription under  1306.05(a) of this chapter. 
(2) the indication of signing as required by  1311.120(b)(17) or the digital signature created by the practitioner's private key. 
(3) the number of refills as required by  1306.22 of this chapter. 
(e) if the third-party auditor or certification organization has found that an electronic prescription application does not accurately and consistently record, store, and transmit other information required for prescriptions under this chapter, the practitioner must not create, sign, and transmit electronic prescriptions for controlled substances that are subject to the additional information requirements. 
(f) the practitioner must not use the electronic prescription application to sign and transmit electronic controlled substance prescriptions if any of the functions of the application required by this subpart have been disabled or appear to be functioning improperly. 
(g) if an electronic prescription application provider notifies an individual practitioner that a third-party audit or certification report indicates that the application or the application provider no longer meets the requirements of this part or notifies him that the application provider has identified an issue that makes the application non-compliant, the practitioner must do the following: 
(1) immediately cease to issue electronic controlled substance prescriptions using the application. 
(2) ensure, for an installed electronic prescription application at an individual practitioner's practice, that the individuals designated under  1311.125 terminate access for signing controlled substance prescriptions. 
(h) if an electronic prescription application provider notifies an institutional practitioner that a third-party audit or certification report indicates that the application or the application provider no longer meets the requirements of this part or notifies it that the application provider has identified an issue that makes the application non-compliant, the institutional practitioner must ensure that the individuals designated under  1311.130 terminate access for signing controlled substance prescriptions. 
(i) an individual practitioner or institutional practitioner that receives a notification that the electronic prescription application is not in compliance with the requirements of this part must not use the application to issue electronic controlled substance prescriptions until it is notified that the application is again compliant and all relevant updates to the application have been installed. 
(j) the practitioner must notify both the individuals designated under  1311.125 or  1311.130 and the administration within one business day of discovery that one or more prescriptions that were issued under a dea registration held by that practitioner were prescriptions the practitioner had not signed or were not consistent with the prescriptions he signed. 
(k) the practitioner has the same responsibilities when issuing prescriptions for controlled substances via electronic means as when issuing a paper or oral prescription. nothing in this subpart relieves a practitioner of his responsibility to dispense controlled substances only for a legitimate medical purpose while acting in the usual course of his professional practice. if an agent enters information at the practitioner's direction prior to the practitioner reviewing and approving the information and signing and authorizing the transmission of that information, the practitioner is responsible in case the prescription does not conform in all essential respects to the law and regulations.", 
