" 1312.14 
distribution of copies of import permit. 
copies of the import permit shall be distributed and serve purposes as follows: 
(a) the original and quintuplet copies (copy 1 and copy 5) shall be transmitted by the administration to the importer, who shall retain the quintuplet copy (copy 5) on file as his record of authority for the importation, and shall transmit the original copy (copy 1) to the foreign exporter. the foreign exporter will submit the original copy (copy 1) to the proper governmental authority in the exporting country, if required, as a prerequisite to the issuance of an export authorization. this copy of the permit will accompany the shipment. upon arrival of the imported merchandise, the district director of the u.s. customs service at the port of entry will, after appraising the merchandise, forward the original copy (copy 1) to the drug operations section with a report on the reverse side of such copy, showing the name of the port of importation, date prepared, name and net quantity of each substance, and report of analysis of the merchandise entered. 
(b) the duplicate copy (copy 2) shall be forwarded by the administration to the proper governmental authorities of the exporting country. 
(c) the quadruplet copy (copy 4) shall be forwarded by the administration to the district director of the u.s. customs service at the u.s. port of entry, which shall be the customs port of destination in the case of shipments transported under immediate transportation entries, in order that the district director may compare it with the original copy (copy 1) and the bill of lading upon arrival of the merchandise. if a discrepancy is noted between corresponding items upon different copies of a permit bearing the same serial number when compared by the district director, he shall refuse to permit entry of the merchandise until the facts are communicated to the administration and further instructions are received. 
(d) the triplicate copy (copy 3) and sextuplet copy (copy 6) shall be retained by the administration. 

