" 1312.27 
contents of special controlled substances invoice. 
(a) a person registered or authorized to export any non-narcotic controlled substance listed in schedule iii, iv, or v, which is not subject to the requirement of an export permit pursuant to  1312.23 (b) or (c), or any person registered or authorized to export any controlled substance in schedule v, must furnish a special controlled substances export invoice on dea form 236 to the import/export unit, drug enforcement administration, not less than 15 calendar days prior to the proposed date of exportation, and distribute four copies of same as hereinafter directed in  1312.28 of this part. see the table of dea mailing addresses in  1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. 
(b) this invoice must be executed by the exporter in quintuplicate and include the following information. 
(1) the name, address, and registration number, if any, of the exporter; and the name, address and registration number of the exporter broker, if any; and 
(2) a complete description of the controlled substances to be exported including the drug name, dosage form, national drug code (ndc) number, the administration controlled substances code number as set forth in part 1308 of this chapter, the number and size of packages or containers, the name and quantity of the controlled substance contained in finished dosage units, and the net quantity of any controlled substance (expressed in anhydrous acid, base, or alkaloid) given in kilograms or parts thereof; and 
(3) the proposed export date, the port of exportation, the foreign port of entry, the carriers and shippers involved, method of shipment, the name of the vessel if applicable, and the name, address, and registration number, if any, of any forwarding agent utilized; and 
(4) the name and address of the consignee in the country of destination, and any registration or license number if the consignee is required to have such numbers either by the country of destination or under united states law. in addition, documentation must be provided to show that: 
(i) the consignee is authorized under the laws and regulations of the country of destination to receive the controlled substances, and that 
(ii) the substance is being imported for consumption within the importing country to satisfy medical, scientific or other legitimate purposes, and that 
(5) the reexport of non-narcotic controlled substances in schedules iii and iv, and controlled substances in schedule v is not permitted under the authority of 21 u.s.c. 953(e), except as provided below: 
(i) bulk substances will not be reexported in the same form as exported from the united states, i.e, the material must undergo further manufacturing process. this further manufactured material may only be reexported to a country of ultimate consumption. 
(ii) finished dosage units, if reexported, will be in a commercial package, properly sealed and labeled for legitimate medical use in the country of destination. 
(iii) any reexportation be made known to dea at the time the initial dea form 236, controlled substances import/export declaration is completed, by checking the box marked other on the certification. the following information will be furnished in the remarks section: 
(a) indicate for reexport. 
(b) indicate if reexport is bulk or finished dosage units. 
(c) indicate product name, dosage strength, commercial package size, and quantity. 
(d) indicate name of consignee, complete address, and expected shipment date, as well as, the name and address of the ultimate consignee in the country to where the substances will be reexported. 
(e) a statement that the consignee in the country of ultimate destination is authorized under the laws and regulations of the country of ultimate destination to receive the controlled substances. 
(iv) shipments which have been exported from the united states and are refused by the consignee in the country of destination, or are otherwise unacceptable or undeliverable, may be returned to the registered exporter in the united states upon authorization of the drug enforcement administration. in this circumstance, the exporter in the united states shall file a written request for reexport, along with a completed dea form 236, import declaration with the import/export unit, drug enforcement administration. see the table of dea mailing addresses in  1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. a brief summary of the facts that warrant the return of the substance to the united states along with an authorization from the country of export will be included with the request. dea will evaluate the request after considering all the facts as well as the exporter's registration status with dea. the substance may be returned to the united states only after affirmative authorization is issued in writing by dea. 
(c) notwithstanding the time limitations included in paragraph (a) of this section, a registrant may obtain a special waiver of these time limitations in emergency or unusual instances; provided that a specific confirmation is received from the administrator or his delegate advising the registrant to proceed pursuant to the special waiver. 

