" 1312.23 
issuance of export permit. 
(a) the administrator may authorize exportation of any controlled substance listed in schedule i or ii or any narcotic controlled substance listed in schedule iii or iv if he finds that such exportation is permitted by subsections 1003(a), (b), (c), (d), or (f) of the act (21 u.s.c. 953(a), (b), (c), (d), or (f). 
(b) the administrator may require that such non-narcotic controlled substances in schedule iii as shall be designated by regulation in  1312.30 of this part be exported only pursuant to the issuance of an export permit. the administrator may authorize the exportation of such substances if he finds that such exportation is permitted by section 1003(e) of the act (21 u.s.c. 953(e)). 
(c) if a non-narcotic substance listed in schedule iv or v is also listed in schedule i or ii of the convention on psychotropic substances, it shall be exported only pursuant to the issuance of an export permit. the administrator may authorize the exportation of such substances if he finds that such exportation is permitted by section 1003(e) of the act (21 u.s.c. 953(e)). 
(d) the administrator may require an applicant to submit such documents or written statements of fact relevant to the application as he deems necessary to determine whether the application should be granted. the failure of the applicant to provide such documents or statements within a reasonable time after being requested to do so shall be deemed to be a waiver by the applicant of an opportunity to present such documents or facts for consideration by the administrator in granting or denying the application. 
(e) each export permit shall be issued in septuplet and serially numbered, with all seven copies bearing the same serial number and being designated original (copy 1), duplicate (copy 2), etc., respectively. each export permit shall be predicated upon an import certificate or other documentary evidence. export permits are not transferable. 
(f) no export permit shall be issued for the exportation, or reexportation, of any controlled substance to any country when the administration has information to show that the estimates or assessments submitted with respect to that country for the current period, under the single convention on narcotic drugs, 1961, or the convention on psychotropic substances, 1971, have been, or, considering the quantity proposed to be imported, will be exceeded. if it shall appear through subsequent advice received from the international narcotics control board of the united nations that the estimates or assessments of the country of destination have been adjusted to permit further importation of the controlled substance, an export permit may then be issued if otherwise permissible. 

