" 1313.22 
contents of export declaration. 
(a) any list i or list ii chemical listed in  1310.02 of this chapter which meets or exceeds the quantitative threshold criteria established in  1310.04(f) of this chapter may be exported if that chemical is needed for medical, commercial, scientific, or other legitimate uses. 
(b) any regulated person who desires to export a threshold or greater quantity of a listed chemical shall notify the administration through procedures outlined in  1313.21 and distribute three copies of dea form 486 as directed in  1313.23. 
(c) the dea form 486 must be executed in triplicate and must include all the following information: 
(1) the name, address, telephone number, telex number, and, where available, the facsimile number of the chemical exporter; the name, address, telephone number, telex number, and, where available, the facsimile number of the export broker, if any; 
(2) the name and description of each listed chemical as it appears on the label or container, the name of each listed chemical as it is designated in  1310.02 of this chapter, the size or weight of container, the number of containers, the net weight of each listed chemical given in kilograms or parts thereof, and the gross weight of the shipment given in kilograms or parts thereof; 
(3) the proposed export date, the u.s. customs port of exportation, and the foreign port of entry; and 
(4) the name, address, telephone, telex, and where available, the facsimile number of the consignee in the country where the chemical shipment is destined; the name(s) and address(es) of any intermediate consignee(s). 
(d) notwithstanding the time limitations included in paragraph (b) of this section, a regulated person may receive a waiver of the 15-day advance notification requirement following the procedures outlined in  1313.24. 
(e) declared exports of listed chemicals which are refused, rejected, or otherwise deemed undeliverable may be returned to the u.s. chemical exporter of record. a brief written notification (this does not require a dea form 486) outlining the circumstances must be sent to the import/export unit, drug enforcement administration, following the return within a reasonable time. see the table of dea mailing addresses in  1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. this provision does not apply to shipments that have cleared foreign customs, been delivered, and accepted by the foreign consignee. returns to third parties in the united states will be regarded as imports. 

