" 1313.32 
requirement of authorization for international transactions. 
(a) a broker or trader shall notify the administrator prior to an international transaction involving a listed chemical which meets or exceeds the threshold amount identified in section 1310.04 of this chapter, in which the broker or trader participates. notification must be made no later than 15 days before the transaction is to take place. in order to facilitate an international transaction involving listed chemicals and implement the purpose of the act, regulated persons may wish to provide advance notification to the administration as far in advance of the 15 days as possible. 
(b)(1) a completed dea form 486 must be received by the import/export unit, drug enforcement administration, not later than 15 days prior to the international transaction. see the table of dea mailing addresses in  1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. 
(2) a copy of the dea form 486 may be transmitted directly to the drug enforcement administration, import/export unit, through electronic facsimile media not later than 15 days prior to the exportation. 
(c) no person shall serve as a broker or trader for an international transaction involving a listed chemical knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the transaction is in violation of the laws of the country to which the chemical is exported or the chemical will be used to manufacture a controlled substance in violation of the laws of the country to which the chemical is exported. the administration will publish a notice of foreign import restrictions for listed chemicals of which dea has knowledge as provided in section 1313.25. 
(d) after a notice under paragraph (a) of this section is submitted to the administration, if circumstances change and the broker or trader will not be transferring the listed chemical to the transferee identified in the notice, or will be transferring a greater quantity of the chemical than specified in the notice, the broker or trader must update the notice to identify the most recent prospective transferee or the most recent quantity or both (as the case may be). the preceding sentence applies with respect to changing circumstances regarding a transferee or quantity identified in an update to the same extent and in the same manner as the sentence applies with respect to changing circumstances regarding a transferee or quantity identified in the original notice under paragraph (a) of this section. 
(e) for purposes of this section: 
(1) the term transfer , with respect to a listed chemical, includes the sale of the chemical. 
(2) the term transferee means a person to whom an exporter transfers a listed chemical. 

