" 1313.31 
advance notice of importation for transshipment or transfer. 
(a) a quantity of a chemical listed in  1310.02 of this chapter that meets or exceeds the threshold reporting requirements found in  1310.04(f) of this chapter may be imported into the united states for transshipment, or may be transferred or transshipped within the united states for immediate exportation, provided that advance notice is given to the administration. 
(b) advance notification must be provided to the import/export unit, drug enforcement administration, not later than 15 days prior to the proposed date the listed chemical will transship or transfer through the united states. see the table of dea mailing addresses in  1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. the written notification (not a dea form 486) shall contain the following information: 
(1) the date the notice was executed; 
(2) the complete name and description of the listed chemical as it appears on the label or container. 
(3) the name of the listed chemical as designated by  1310.02 of this chapter. 
(4) the number of containers and the size or weight of the container for each listed item; 
(5) the net weight of each listed chemical given in kilograms or parts thereof; 
(6) the gross weight of the shipment given in kilograms or parts thereof; 
(7) the name, address, telephone number, telex number, business of the foreign exporter and, where available, the facsimile number; 
(8) the foreign port of exportation; 
(9) the approximate date of exportation; 
(10) the complete identification of the exporting carrier; 
(11) the name, address, business, telephone number, and, where available, the facsimile number of the importer, transferor, or transshipper; 
(12) the u.s. port of entry; 
(13) the approximate date of entry; 
(14) the name, address, telephone number, telex number, business of the consignee and, where available, facsimile number of the consignee at the foreign port of entry; 
(15) the shipping route from the u.s. port of exportation to the foreign port of entry at final destination; 
(16) the approximate date of receipt by the consignee at the foreign port of entry; and 
(17) the signature of the importer, transferor or transshipper, or his agent, accompanied by the agent's title. 
(c) unless notified to the contrary prior to the expected date of delivery, the importation for transshipment or transfer is considered approved. 
(d) no waiver of the 15-day advance notice will be given for imports of listed chemicals in quantities meeting or exceeding threshold quantities for transshipment or transfer outside the united states. 

