" 1313.21 
requirement of authorization to export. 
(a) no person shall export or cause to be exported from the united states any chemical listed in  1310.02 of this chapter, which meets or exceeds the threshold quantities identified in  1310.04(f) or is a listed chemical for which no threshold has been established as identified in  1310.04(g) of this chapter, until such time as the administrator has been notified. notification must be made not later than 15 days before the transaction is to take place. in order to facilitate the export of listed chemicals and implement the purpose of the act, regulated persons may wish to provide notification to the administration as far in advance of the 15 days as possible. 
(b) a completed dea form 486 must be received by the import/export unit, drug enforcement administration, not later than 15 days prior to the exportation. see the table of dea mailing addresses in  1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. a copy of the completed dea form 486 may be transmitted directly to the drug enforcement administration through electronic facsimile media not later than 15 days prior to the exportation. 
(c) the 15-day advance notification requirement for listed chemical exports may be waived for: 
(1) any regulated person who has satisfied the requirements of  1313.24 for reporting to the administration an established business relationship, as defined in  1300.02 of this chapter, with a foreign customer. 
(2) a specific listed chemical to a specified country, as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, for which the administrator determines that advance notification is not necessary for effective chemical diversion control. 
(d) for exports where advance notification is waived pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the dea form 486 must be received by the drug enforcement administration, chemical operations section, on or before the date of exportation through use of the mailing address listed in section 1313.12(b) or through use of electronic facsimile media. 
(e) for exportations where advance notification is waived pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, no dea form 486 is required; however, the regulated person shall file quarterly reports with the import/export unit, drug enforcement administration, no later than the 15th day of the month following the end of each quarter. see the table of dea mailing addresses in  1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. the report shall contain the following information regarding each individual exportation: 
(1) the name of the listed chemical; 
(2) the quantity and date exported; 
(3) the name and full business address of the foreign customer; 
(4) the port of embarkation; and 
(5) the foreign port of entry. 
(f) the 15 day advance notification requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section has been waived for exports of the following listed chemicals to the following countries: 
name of chemical country [reserved] 
(g) no person shall export or cause to be exported any listed chemical, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the export is in violation of the laws of the country to which the chemical is exported or the chemical will be used to manufacture a controlled substance in violation of the act or the laws of the country to which the chemical is exported. the administration will publish a notice of foreign import restrictions for listed chemicals of which dea has knowledge as provided in  1313.25. 

