" 1314.30 
recordkeeping for retail transactions. 
(a) except for purchase by an individual of a single sales package containing not more than 60 milligrams of pseudoephedrine, the regulated seller must maintain, in accordance with criteria issued by the administrator, a written or electronic list of each scheduled listed chemical product sale that identifies the products by name, the quantity sold, the names and addresses of the purchasers, and the dates and times of the sales (referred to as the logbook). 
(b) the regulated seller must not sell a scheduled listed chemical product at retail unless the sale is made in accordance with the following: 
(1) the purchaser presents an identification card that provides a photograph and is issued by a state or the federal government, or a document that, with respect to identification, is considered acceptable for purposes of 8 cfr 274a.2(b)(1)(v)(a) and 274a.2(b)(1)(v)(b). 
(2) the purchaser signs the logbook as follows: 
(i) for written logbooks, enters in the logbook his name, address, and the date and time of the sale. 
(ii) for electronic logbooks, provides a signature using one of the following means: 
(a) signing a device presented by the seller that captures signatures in an electronic format. the device must display the warning notice in paragraph (d) of this section. any device used must preserve each signature in a manner that clearly links that signature to the other electronically captured logbook information relating to the prospective purchaser providing that signature. 
(b) signing a bound paper book. 
) the bound paper book must include, for such purchaser, either 
) a printed sticker affixed to the bound paper book at the time of sale that either displays the name of each product sold, the quantity sold, the name and address of the purchaser, and the date and time of the sale, or a unique identifier which can be linked to that electronic information, or 
ii ) a unique identifier that can be linked to that information and that is written into the book by the seller at the time of sale. 
) the purchaser must sign adjacent to the printed sticker or written unique identifier related to that sale. the bound paper book must display the warning notice in paragraph (d) of this section. 
(c) signing a printed document that includes, for the purchaser, the name of each product sold, the quantity sold, the name and address of the purchaser, and the date and time of the sale. the document must be printed by the seller at the time of the sale. the document must contain a clearly identified signature line for a purchaser to sign. the printed document must display the warning notice in paragraph (d) of this section. each signed document must be inserted into a binder or other secure means of document storage immediately after the purchaser signs the document. 
(3) the regulated seller must enter in the logbook the name of the product and the quantity sold. examples of methods of recording the quantity sold include the weight of the product per package and number of packages of each chemical, the cumulative weight of the product for each chemical, or quantity of product by universal product code. these examples do not exclude other methods of displaying the quantity sold. such information may be captured through electronic means, including through electronic data capture through bar code reader or similar technology. such electronic records must be provided pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section in a human readable form such that the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are satisfied. 
(c) the logbook maintained by the seller must include the prospective purchaser's name, address, and the date and time of the sale, as follows: 
(1) if the purchaser enters the information, the seller must determine that the name entered in the logbook corresponds to the name provided on the identification and that the date and time entered are correct. 
(2) if the seller enters the information, the prospective purchaser must verify that the information is correct. 
(3) such information may be captured through electronic means, including through electronic data capture through bar code reader or similar technology. 
(d) the regulated seller must include in the written or electronic logbook or display by the logbook, the following notice: 
warning: section 1001 of title 18, united states code, states that whoever, with respect to the logbook, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined not more than $250,000 if an individual or $500,000 if an organization, imprisoned not more than five years, or both. 
(e) the regulated seller must maintain each entry in the written or electronic logbook for not fewer than two years after the date on which the entry is made. 
(f) a record under this section must be kept at the regulated seller's place of business where the transaction occurred, except that records may be kept at a single, central location of the regulated seller if the regulated seller has notified the administration of the intention to do so. written notification must be submitted by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the special agent in charge of the dea divisional office for the area in which the records are required to be kept. 
(g) the records required to be kept under this section must be readily retrievable and available for inspection and copying by authorized employees of the administration under the provisions of section 510 of the act (21 u.s.c. 880). 
(h) a record developed and maintained to comply with a state law may be used to meet the requirements of this section if the record includes the information specified in this section. 

