" 133.162 
neufchatel cheese. 
(a) description. (1) neufchatel cheese is the soft uncured cheese prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. the milkfat content is not less than 20 percent but less than 33 percent by weight of the finished food and the maximum moisture content is 65 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in  133.5. the dairy ingredients used are pasteurized. 
(2) one or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is subjected to the action of a harmless lactic acid-producing bacterial culture, with or without one or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. the mixture is held until the dairy ingredients coagulate. the coagulated mass may be warmed and stirred and it is drained. the moisture content may be adjusted with one of the optional ingredients in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. the curd may be pressed, chilled, worked, and heated until it becomes fluid. it may then be homogenized or otherwise mixed. one or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure. 
(b) optional ingredients. the following safe and suitable ingredients may be used: 
(1) dairy ingredients. milk, nonfat milk, or cream, as defined in  133.3. 
(2) clotting enzymes. rennet and/or other clotting enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin. 
(3) other optional ingredients. (i) salt. 
(ii) cheese whey, concentrated cheese whey, dried cheese whey, or reconstituted cheese whey prepared by addition of water to concentrated cheese whey or dried cheese whey. 
(iii) stabilizers, in a total amount not to exceed 0.5 percent of the weight of the finished food, with or without the addition of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate in a maximum amount of 0.5 percent of the weight of the stabilizer(s) used. 
(c) nomenclature. the name of the food is neufchatel cheese. 
(d) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that: 
(1) enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin may be declared as enzymes; and 
(2) the dairy ingredients may be declared, in descending order of predominance, by use of the terms milkfat and nonfat milk or nonfat milk and milkfat, as appropriate. 

