" 133.153 
monterey cheese and monterey jack cheese. 
(a) description. (1) monterey cheese, monterey jack cheese is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. the minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids, and the maximum moisture content is 44 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in  133.5. the dairy ingredients used are pasteurized. 
(2) the phenol equivalent of 0.25 gram of monterey cheese is not more than 3 micrograms, as determined by the method described in  133.5. 
(3) one or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. one or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. the mass is so cut, stirred, and heated with continued stirring, as to promote and regulate the separation of whey and curd. part of the whey is drained off, and water or salt brine may be added. the curd is drained and placed in a muslin or sheeting cloth, formed into a ball, and pressed; or the curd is placed in a cheese hoop and pressed. later, the cloth bandage is removed, and the cheese may be covered with a suitable coating. one or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure. 
(b) optional ingredients. the following safe and suitable ingredients may be used: 
(1) dairy ingredients. milk, nonfat milk, or cream, as defined in  133.3, used alone or in combination. 
(2) clotting enzymes. rennet and/or other clotting enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin. 
(3) other optional ingredients. (i) calcium chloride in an amount not more than 0.02 percent (calculated as anhydrous calcium chloride) by weight of the dairy ingredients, used as a coagulation aid. 
(ii) enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin, used in curing or flavor development. 
(iii) salt. 
(iv) antimycotic agents, the cumulative levels of which shall not exceed current good manufacturing practice, may be added to the surface of the cheese. 
(v) vegetable oil, with or without rice flour sprinkled on the surface, used as a coating for the rind. 
(c) nomenclature. the name of the food is monterey cheese or alternatively, monterey jack cheese. 
(d) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that: 
(1) enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin may be declared as enzymes, and 
(2) the dairy ingredients may be declared, in descending order of predominance, by the use of the terms milkfat and nonfat milk or nonfat milk and milkfat, as appropriate. 

