" 133.108 
brick cheese. 
(a) description. (1) brick cheese is the food prepared from dairy ingredients and other ingredients specified in this section by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. the minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids and the maximum moisture content is 44 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in  133.5. if the dairy ingredients used are not pasteurized, the cheese is cured at a temperature of not less than 35 f for at least 60 days. 
(2) if pasteurized dairy ingredients are used, the phenol equivalent value of 0.25 gram of brick cheese is not more than 5 micrograms as determined by the method described in  133.5. 
(3) one or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is brought to a temperature of about 88 f and subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culutre. one or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. the mass is cut into cubes with sides approximately 3/8 inch long, and stirred and heated so that the temperature rises slowly to about 96 f. the stirring is continued until the curd is sufficiently firm. part of the whey is then removed, and the mixture diluted with water or salt brine to control the acidity. the curd is transferred to forms, and drained. during drainage it is pressed and turned. after drainage the curd is salted, and the biological curing agents characteristic of brick cheese are applied to the surface. the cheese is then cured to develop the characteristics of brick cheese. one or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure. 
(b) optional ingredients. the following safe and suitable ingredients may be used: 
(1) dairy ingredients. milk, nonfat milk, or cream, as defined in  133.3, used alone or in combination. 
(2) clotting enzymes. rennet and/or other clotting enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin. 
(3) other optional ingredients. (i) coloring. 
(ii) calcium chloride in an amount not more than 0.02 percent (calculated as anhydrous calcium chloride) of the weight of the dairy ingredients, used as a coagulation aid. 
(iii) enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin, used in curing or flavor development. 
(iv) antimycotic agents, the cumulative level of which shall not exceed current good manufacturing practice, may be added to the surface of the cheese. 
(c) nomenclature. the name of the food is brick cheese. 
(d) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that: 
(1) enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin may be declared as enzymes; and 
(2) the dairy ingredients may be declared, in descending order of predominance, by the use of the terms milkfat and nonfat milk or nonfat milk and milkfat, as appropriate. 

