" 133.141 
gorgonzola cheese. 
(a) description. (1) gorgonzola cheese is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. it is characterized by the presence of bluish-green mold, penicillium roque-fortii, throughout the cheese. the minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids and the maximum moisture content is 42 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in  133.5. the dairy ingredients used may be pasteurized. gorgonzola cheese is at least 90 days old. 
(2) one or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. one or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. the mass is cut into smaller portions and allowed to stand for a time. the mixed curd and whey is placed into forms permitting further drainage. while being placed in forms, spores of the mold penicillium roque-fortii are added. the forms are turned several times during drainage. when sufficiently drained, the shaped curd is removed from the forms and salted with dry salt or brine. perforations are then made in the shaped curd and it is held at a temperature of approximately 50 f at 90 to 95 percent relative humidity, until the characteristic mold growth has developed. during storage, the surface of the cheese may be scraped to remove surface growth of undesirable microorganisms. one or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure. 
(b) optional ingredients. the following safe and suitable ingredients may be used: 
(1) dairy ingredients. milk, nonfat milk, or cream, as defined in  133.3, or corresponding products of goat origin, used alone or in combination. 
(2) clotting enzymes. rennet and/or other clotting enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin. 
(3) other optional ingredients. (i) blue or green color in an amount to neutralize the natural yellow color of the curd. 
(ii) calcium chloride in an amount not more than 0.02 percent (calculated as anhydrous calcium chloride) of the weight of the dairy ingredients, used as a coagulation aid. 
(iii) enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin, used in curing or flavor development. 
(iv) antimycotic agents, the cumulative levels of which shall not exceed current good manufacturing practice, may be added to the surface of the cheese. 
(v) benzoyl peroxide, or a mixture of benzoyl peroxide with potassium alum, calcium sulfate, and magnesium carbonate used to bleach the dairy ingredients. the weight of the benzoyl peroxide is not more than 0.002 percent of the weight of the dairy ingredients being bleached, and the weight of the potassium alum, calcium sulfate, and magnesium carbonate, singly or combined, is not more than six times the weight of the benzoyl peroxide used. if the dairy ingredients are bleached in this manner, vitamin a is added to the curd in such quantity as to compensate for the vitamin a or its precursors destroyed in the bleaching process, and artificial coloring is not used. 
(vi) vegetable fats or oil which may be hydrogenated, used as a coating for the rind. 
(c) nomenclature. the name of the food is gorgonzola cheese. 
(d) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that: 
(1) enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin may be declared as enzymes; and 
(2) the dairy ingredients may be declared, in descending order of predominance, by the use of the terms milkfat and nonfat milk or nonfat milk and milkfat, as appropriate; milkfat from goat's milk and nonfat goat's milk, etc. 

