" 135.115 
goat's milk ice cream. 
(a) description. goat's milk ice cream is the food prepared in the same manner prescribed in  135.110 for ice cream, and complies with all the provisions of  135.110, except that the only optional dairy ingredients that may be used are those in paragraph (b) of this section; caseinates and hydrolyzed milk proteins may not be used; and paragraphs (f)(1) and (g) of  135.110 shall not apply. 
(b) optional dairy ingredients. the optional dairy ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are goat's skim milk, goat's milk, and goat's cream. these optional dairy ingredients may be used in liquid, concentrated, and/or dry form. 
(c) nomenclature. (1) the name of the food is goat's milk ice cream or, alternatively, ice cream made with goat's milk, except that when the egg yolk solids content of the food is in excess of that specified for ice cream in paragraph (a) of  135.110, the name of the food is goat's milk frozen custard or, alternatively, frozen custard made with goat's milk, or goat's milk french ice cream, or, alternatively, french ice cream made with goat's milk, or goat's milk french custard ice cream, or, alternatively, french custard ice cream made with goat's milk. 
(2) until september 14, 1998, when safe and suitable sweeteners other than nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners are used in the food, their presence shall be declared by their common or usual name on the principal display panel of the label as part of the statement of identity in letters that shall be no less than one-half the size of the type used in the term goat's milk ice cream but in any case no smaller than one-sixteenth of an inch. if the food purports to be or is represented for special dietary use, it shall bear labeling in accordance with the requirements of part 105 of this chapter. 
(d) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

