" 137.200 
whole wheat flour. 
(a) whole wheat flour, graham flour, entire wheat flour is the food prepared by so grinding cleaned wheat, other than durum wheat and red durum wheat, that when tested by the method prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, not less than 90 percent passes through a 2.36 mm (no. 8) sieve and not less than 50 percent passes through a 850 m (no. 20) sieve. the proportions of the natural constituents of such wheat, other than moisture, remain unaltered. to compensate for any natural deficiency of enzymes, malted wheat, malted wheat flour, malted barley flour, or any combination of two or more of these, may be used; but the quantity of malted barley flour so used is not more than 0.75 percent. it may contain harmless preparations of -amylase obtained from aspergillus oryzae, alone or in a safe and suitable carrier. the moisture content of whole wheat flour is not more than 15 percent. it may contain ascorbic acid in a quantity not to exceed 200 parts per million as a dough conditioner. unless such addition conceals damage or inferiority or makes the whole wheat flour appear to be better or of greater value than it is, the optional bleaching ingredient azodicarbonamide (complying with the requirements of  172.806 of this chapter, including the quantitative limit of not more than 45 parts per million) or chlorine dioxide, or chlorine, or a mixture of nitrosyl chloride and chlorine, may be added in a quantity not more than sufficient for bleaching and artificial aging effects. 
(b)(1) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 
(2) when ascorbic acid is added, the label shall bear the statement ascorbic acid added as a dough conditioner. when the optional ingredient -amylase obtained from aspergillus oryzae  is used, it may alternatively be declared in the list of ingredients as fungal alpha -amylase, fungal -amylase, enzyme, or enzyme added for improved baking. when any optional bleaching ingredient is used, the label shall bear the word bleached. wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the word bleached shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter; except that where such name is a part of a trademark or brand, other written, printed or graphic matter, which is also a part of such trademark or brand, may so intervene if the word bleached is in such juxtaposition with such trademark or brand as to be conspicuously related to such name. 
(c) for the purposes of this section: 
(1) moisture is determined by the method prescribed in official methods of analysis of the association of official analytical chemists (aoac), 13th ed. (1980), section 14.002. vacuum oven methodofficial final action, and section 14.003, determination, which is incorporated by reference. copies may be obtained from the aoac international, 481 north frederick ave., suite 500, gaithersburg, md 20877, or may be examined at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(2) the method referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is as follows: use no. 8 and no. 20 sieves, having standard 8-inch full-height frames, complying with the specifications set forth in the aoac, table 1, nominal dimensions of standard test sieves (u.s.a. standard series), under the heading definitions of terms and explanatory notes, which is incorporated by reference. the availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. fit a no. 8 sieve into a no. 20 sieve. attach bottom pan to the no. 20 sieve. pour 100 gm. of the sample into the no. 8 sieve. attach cover and hold the assembly in a slightly inclined position with one hand. shake the sieves by striking the sides against the other hand with an upward stroke, at the rate of about 150 times per minute. turn the sieves about one-sixth of a revolution each time in the same direction, after each 25 strokes. continue shaking for 2 minutes. weigh the material which fails to pass through the no. 8 sieve and the material which passes through the no. 20 sieve. 

