" 139.150 
noodle products. 
(a) noodle products are the class of food each of which is prepared by drying formed units of dough made from semolina, durum flour, farina, flour, or any combination of two or more of these, with liquid eggs, frozen eggs, dried eggs, egg yolks, frozen yolks, dried yolks, or any combination of two or more of these, with or without water and with or without one or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a) (1) to (4) of this section inclusive: 
(1) onions, celery, garlic, bay leaf, or any two or more of these, in a quantity which seasons the food. 
(2) salt, in a quantity which seasons the food. 
(3) gum gluten, in such quantity that the protein derived therefrom, together with the protein derived from semolina, durum flour, farina, flour or any combination of these used, does not exceed 13 percent of the weight of the finished food. 
(4) concentrated glyceryl monostearate (containing not less than 90 percent monoester) in a quantity not exceeding 3 percent by weight of the finished food. 
the finished noodle product contains not less than 87 percent of total solids as determined by the method prescribed in official methods of analysis of the association of official analytical chemists, 13th ed. (1980), in section 14.133, under the heading vacuum oven methodofficial final action, which is incorporated by reference. copies may be obtained from the aoac international, 481 north frederick ave., suite 500, gaithersburg, md 20877, or may be examined at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. the total solids of noodle products contains not less than 5.5 percent by weight of the solids of egg, or egg yolk. 
(b) noodles, egg noodles, is the noodle product the units of which are ribbon-shaped. 
(c) egg macaroni is the noodle product the units of which are tube-shaped and more than 0.11 inch but not more than 0.27 inch in diameter. 
(d) egg spaghetti is the noodle product the units of which are tube-shaped or cord-shaped (not tubular) and more than 0.06 inch but not more than 0.11 inch in diameter. 
(e) egg vermicelli is the noodle product the units of which are cord-shaped (not tubular) and not more than 0.06 inch in diameter. 
(f) the name of each food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is noodle product or egg noodle product; or alternatively, the name is noodles or egg noodles, egg macaroni, egg spaghetti, or egg vermicelli, as the case may be, when the units of the food are of the shapes and sizes specified in paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e), respectively, of this section. 
(g)(1) when any ingredient specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is used, the label of the noodle product shall bear the statement seasoned with ___, the blank being filled in with the common name of the ingredient; or in the case of bay leaves, the statement spiced, spice added, or spiced with bay leaves. 
(2) when the ingredient specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement glyceryl monostearate added or the statement with added glyceryl monostearate. 
(h) wherever the name of the food appears on such label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the words and statements prescribed in this section, showing the ingredients used shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow, or in part precede and in part follow, such name without intervening written, printed, or other graphic matter. 
(i) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

