" 139.155 
enriched noodle products. 
(a) enriched noodle products are the class of food each of which conforms to the definition and standard of identity, and is subject to the requirements for label statement of ingredients, prescribed for noodle products by  139.150 (a), (g), and (i), except that: 
(1) each such food contains in each pound not less than 4 milligrams (mg) and not more than 5 mg of thiamin, not less than 1.7 mg and not more than 2.2 mg of riboflavin, not less than 27 mg and not more than 34 mg of niacin or niacinamide, not less than 0.9 mg and not more than 1.2 mg of folic acid, and not less than 13 mg and not more than 16.5 mg of iron (fe); 
(2) each such food may also contain as an optional ingredient added vitamin d in such quantity that each pound of the finished food contains not less than 250 u.s.p. units and not more than 1000 u.s.p. units of vitamin d; 
(3) each such food may also contain as an optional ingredient added calcium in such quantity that each pound of the finished food contains not less than 500 mg. and not more than 625 mg. of calcium (ca); 
(4) each such food may also contain as an optional ingredient partly defatted wheat germ, but the amount thereof does not exceed 5 percent of the weight of the finished food; 
(5) each such food may be supplied, wholly or in part, with the prescribed quantity of any substance referred to in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section through the use of dried yeast, dried torula yeast, partly defatted wheat germ, enriched farina, or enriched flour, or through the direct additions of any of the substances prescribed in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section. 
iron and calcium may be added only in forms which are harmless and assimilable. the substances referred to in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section may be added in a harmless carrier which does not impair the enriched noodle product, such carrier being used only in the quantity reasonably necessary to effect an intimate and uniform distribution of such substances in the finished enriched noodle product. 
(b) enriched noodles, enriched egg noodles are the enriched noodle products the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for noodles in  139.150(b). 
(c) enriched egg macaroni is the enriched noodle product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for egg macaroni in  139.150(c). 
(d) enriched egg spaghetti is the enriched noodle product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for egg spaghetti in  139.150(d). 
(e) enriched egg vermicelli is the enriched noodle product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for egg vermicelli in  139.150(e). 
(f) the name of each food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is enriched noodle product or enriched egg noodle product; or alternatively, the name is enriched noodles, or enriched egg noodles, enriched egg macaroni, enriched egg spaghetti, or enriched egg vermicelli, as the case may be, when the units of the food comply with the requirements of paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) respectively of this section. 

