" 1401.3 
definitions. 
for the purpose of this part: 
(a) all the terms defined in the freedom of information act apply. 
(b) commercial-use request means a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a cause or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade or profit interests of the requester or the person or institution on whose behalf the request is made. in determining whether a requester properly belongs in this category, ondcp will consider the intended use of the information. 
(c) direct costs means the expense actually expended to search, review, or duplicate in response to a foia request. for example, direct costs include 116% of the salary of the employee performing work and the actual costs incurred while operating equipment. 
(d) duplicate means the process of making a copy of a document. such copies may take the form of paper, microform, audio-visual materials, or machine-readable documentation. ondcp will provide a copy of the material in a form that is usable by the requester. 
(e) educational institution means preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education that operates a program or programs of scholarly research. 
(f) noncommercial scientific institution means an institution that is not operated on a commercial basis as that term is defined in this section, and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research not intended to promote any particular product or industry. 
(g) records and any other terms used in this part in reference to information includes any information that would be an agency record subject to the requirements of this part when maintained in any format, including electronic format. 
(h) representative of the news media means any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. news is information about current events or information that would be of interest to the public. examples of the news media include television or radio stations that broadcast to the public at large and publishers of news periodicals that make their products available to the general public for purchase or subscription. freelance journalists may be regarded as working for the news media where they demonstrate a reasonable basis for expecting publication through that organization, even though not actually employed by it. 
(i) request means a letter or other written communication seeking records or information under foia. 
(j) review means the process of examining documents that are located during a search to determine if any portion should lawfully be withheld. it is the processing of determining disclosability. 
(k) search means to review, manually or by automated means, agency records for the purpose of locating those records responsive to a request.", 
