" 145.130 
canned figs. 
(a) ingredients. canned figs is the food prepared from one of the optional fig ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section and one of the optional packing media specified in paragraph (c) of this section, to which lemon juice, concentrated lemon juice or organic acid(s) is added, when necessary to reduce the ph of the finished product to ph 4.9 or below. such food may also contain one, or any combination of two or more of the following safe and suitable optional ingredients: 
(1) natural and artificial flavoring. 
(2) spice. 
(3) vinegar. 
(4) unpeeled segments of citrus fruits. 
(5) salt. 
such food is sealed in a container and before or after sealing is so processed by heat as to prevent spoilage. 
(b) varietal types. the optional fig ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are prepared from mature figs of the light or dark varieties. figs (or whole figs), split figs (or broken figs), or any combination thereof are optional fig ingredients. a whole fig is one which is whole, but may be slightly cracked, provided it retains its natural conformation without exposing the interior. a split or broken fig is one that is open to such an extent that the seed cavity is exposed. the shape of the fruit may be distorted, and the fruit may or may not be broken apart into entirely separate pieces. 
(c) packing media. (1) the optional packing media referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as defined in  145.3 are: 
(i) water. 
(ii) fruit juice(s) and water. 
(iii) fruit juice(s). 
such packing media may be used as such or any one or any combination of two or more safe and suitable nutritive carbohydrate sweetener(s) may be added. sweeteners defined in  145.3 shall be as defined therein, except that a nutritive carbohydrate sweetener for which a standard of identity has been established in part 168 of this chapter shall comply with such standard in lieu of any definition that may appear in  145.3. 
(2) when a sweetener is added as a part of any such liquid packing medium, the density range of the resulting packing medium expressed as percent by weight of sucrose (degrees brix) as determined by the procedure prescribed in  145.3(m) shall be designated by the appropriate name for the respective density ranges, namely: 
(i) when the density of the solution is 11 percent or more but less than 16 percent, the medium shall be designated as slightly sweetened water; or extra light syrup; slightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water; or slightly sweetened fruit juice(s), as the case may be. 
(ii) when the density of the solution is 16 percent or more but less than 21 percent, the medium shall be designated as light sirup; lightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water; or lightly sweetened fruit juice(s), as the case may be. 
(iii) when the density of the solution is 21 percent or more but less than 26 percent, the medium shall be designated as heavy sirup; heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water; or heavily sweetened fruit juice(s), as the case may be. 
(iv) when the density of the solution is 26 percent or more but not more than 35 percent, the medium shall be designated as extra heavy sirup; extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water; or extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s), as the case may be. 
(d) labeling requirements. (1) the name of the food is figs. the words broken or split shall be a part of the name when the optional fig ingredient is a broken or split fig. the name of the food shall also include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the product as specified in  101.22 of this chapter and a declaration of any spice or seasoning that characterizes the product; for example, spice added, or in lieu of the word spice, the common name of the spice, seasoned with vinegar or seasoned with unpeeled segments of citrus fruits. when two or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a) (2) through (5), inclusive, of this section are used, such words may be combined as for example, seasoned with cider vinegar, cloves, cinnamon oil and unpeeled segments of citrus fruits. 
(2) the name of the packing medium as used in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, preceded by in or packed in, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food. when the packing medium is prepared with a sweetener(s) which imparts a taste, flavor or other characteristic to the finished food other than sweetness, as for example, a mixture of brown sugar and honey, the statement ___ sirup of brown sugar and honey the blank to be filled in with the word light, heavy, or extra heavy, as the case may be, shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food. when the liquid portion of the packing media provided for in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section consists of fruit juice(s), such juice(s) shall be designated in the name of the packing medium as: 
(i) in the case of a single fruit juice, the name of the juice shall be used in lieu of the word fruit; 
(ii) in the case of a combination of two or more fruit juices, the names of the juices in the order of predominance by weight shall either be used in lieu of the word fruit in the name of the packing medium, or be declared on the label as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and 
(iii) in the case of a single fruit juice or a combination of two or more fruit juices any of which are made from concentrate(s), the words from concentrate(s) shall follow the word juice(s) in the name of the packing medium and in the name(s) of such juice(s) when declared as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. 
(3) whenever the names of the fruit juices used do not appear in the name of the packing medium as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, such names and the words from contrate, as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, shall appear in an ingredient statement pursuant to the requirements of  101.3(d) of this chapter. 
(4) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

