" 145.190 
canned prunes. 
(a) ingredients. canned prunes is the food prepared from dried prunes, which may be packed as a solid pack or in one of the optional packing media specified in paragraph (b) of this section. such food may also contain one, or any combination of two or more, of the following safe and suitable optional ingredients: 
(1) natural and artificial flavors. 
(2) spice. 
(3) vinegar, lemon juice, or organic acids. 
(4) unpeeled pieces of citrus fruits. 
such food is sealed in a container and before or after sealing is so processed by heat as to prevent spoilage. 
(b) packing media. (1) the optional packing media referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as defined in  145.3 are: 
(i) water. 
(ii) fruit juice(s) and water. 
(iii) fruit juice(s). 
such packing media may be used as such or any one or any combination of two or more safe and suitable nutritive carbohydrate sweetener(s) may be added. sweeteners defined in  145.3 shall be as defined therein, except that a nutritive carbohydrate sweetener for which a standard of identity has been established in part 168 of this chapter shall comply with such standard in lieu of any definition that may appear in  145.3. 
(2) when a sweetener is added as a part of any such liquid packing medium, the density range of the resulting packing medium expressed as percent by weight of sucrose (degrees brix) as determined by the procedure prescribed in  145.3(m) shall be designated by the appropriate name for the respective density ranges, namely: 
(i) when the density of the solution is less than 20 percent, the medium shall be designated as slightly sweetened water; or extra light sirup; slightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water; or slightly sweetened fruit juice(s), as the case may be. 
(ii) when the density of the solution is 20 percent or more but less than 24 percent, the medium shall be designated as light sirup; lightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water; or lightly sweetened fruit juice(s), as the case may be. 
(iii) when the density of the solution is 24 percent or more but less than 30 percent, the medium shall be designated as heavy sirup; heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water; or heavily sweetened fruit juice(s), as the case may be. 
(iv) when the density of the solution is 30 percent or more but not more than 45 percent, the medium shall be designated as extra heavy sirup; extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water; or extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s), as the case may be. 
(c) labeling requirements. (1) the name of the food is prunesprepared from dried prunes. the words prepared from dried prunes shall be in close proximity to the word prunes and shall be of the same style and not less than 1/2 of the point size of the type used for the word prunes. the name of the food shall also include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the product as specified in  101.22 of this chapter and a declaration of any spice or seasoning that characterizes the product; for example, spice added, or in lieu of the word spice, the common name of the spice, seasoned with vinegar or seasoned with unpeeled pieces of citrus fruit. when two or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a) (2) through (4) of this section are used, such words may be combined as for example, seasoned with cider vinegar, cloves, cinnamon oil and unpeeled pieces of citrus fruit. 
(2) when the food is prepared with a packing medium, the name of the packing medium specified in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, preceded by in or packed in and the words cooked, stewed, or prepared, shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food. when no packing medium is used, the words solid pack or moist pack or the word moistened followed by the words without sirup shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food. when the packing medium is prepared with a sweetener(s) which imparts a taste, flavor or other characteristic to the finished food in addition to sweetness, the name of the packing medium shall be accompanied by the name of such sweetener(s), as for example in the case of a mixture of brown sugar and honey, an appropriate statement would be ___ sirup of brown sugar and honey, the blank to be filled in with the word light, heavy, or extra heavy as the case may be. when the liquid portion of the packing media provided for in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section consists of fruit juice(s), such juice(s) shall be designated in the name of the packing medium as: 
(i) in the case of a single fruit juice, the name of the juice shall be used in lieu of the word fruit, 
(ii) in the case of a combination of two or more fruit juices, the names of the juices in the order of predominance by weight shall either be used in lieu of the word fruit in the name of the packing medium, or be declared on the label as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and 
(iii) in the case of the single fruit juice or a combination of two or more fruit juices any of which are made from concentrate(s), the words from concentrate(s) shall follow the word juice(s) in the name of the packing medium and in the name(s) of such juice(s) when declared as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. 
(3) whenever the names of the fruit juices used do not appear in the name of the packing medium as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, such names and the words from concentrate, as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, shall appear in an ingredient statement pursuant to the requirements of  101.3(d) of this chapter. 
(4) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

