" 146.145 
orange juice from concentrate. 
(a) orange juice from concentrate is the food prepared by mixing water with frozen concentrated orange juice as defined in  146.146 or with concentrated orange juice for manufacturing as defined in  146.153 (when made from mature oranges), or both. to such mixture may be added orange juice as defined in  146.135, frozen orange juice as defined in  146.137, pasteurized orange juice as defined in  146.140, orange juice for manufacturing as defined in  146.151 (when made from mature oranges and preserved by chilling or freezing but not by canning), orange oil, orange pulp, and one or more of the sweetening ingredients listed in paragraph (b) of this section. the finished orange juice from concentrate contains not less than 11.8 percent orange juice soluble solids, exclusive of solids of any added optional sweetening ingredients. it may be so treated by heat as to reduce substantially the enzymatic activity and the number of viable microorganisms. 
(b) the sweetening ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are sugar, sugar sirup, invert sugar, invert sugar sirup, dextrose, corn sirup, dried corn sirup, glucose sirup, dried glucose sirup. 
(c) the name of the food is orange juice from concentrate. the words from concentrate shall be shown in letters not less than one-half the height of the letters in the words orange juice. 
(d) when orange juice from concentrate contains any optional sweetening ingredient as listed in paragraph (b) of this section, whether added directly as such or indirectly as an added ingredient of any orange juice product used, the label shall bear the statement ___ added, the blank being filled in with the name or an appropriate combination of the names of the sweetening ingredients added. however, for the purposes of this section the name sweetener may be used in lieu of the specific name or names of the sweetening ingredients. 
(e) wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements specified in this section for naming the optional ingredients used shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow the name of the food, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter. 
(f) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

