" 150.161 
artificially sweetened fruit preserves and jams. 
(a) the artificially sweetened fruit preserves or artificially sweetened fruit jams for which definitions and standards of identity are prescribed by this section are the viscous or semisolid foods made from a fruit ingredient as specified in paragraph (b) of this section and an artificial sweetening ingredient as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and with or without water and a jelling ingredient as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. the quantity of the fruit ingredient amounts to not less than 55 percent by weight of the finished food. the article is sealed in containers and so processed by heat, either before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage. such food may also contain one or more of the following optional ingredients: 
(1) spice, spice oil, spice extract. 
(2) a vinegar, lemon juice, lime juice, citric acid, lactic acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, fumaric acid, or any combination of two or more of these, in a quantity which reasonably compensates for deficiency, if any, of the natural acidity of the fruit ingredient. 
(3) sodium citrate, sodium acetate, sodium tartrate, monosodium phosphate, disodium phosphate, trisodium phosphate, sodium potassium tartrate, potassium citrate, potassium acid tartrate, or any combination thereof, in an amount not exceeding 2 ounces avoirdupois per 100 pounds of the finished food. 
(4) sodium hexametaphosphate in an amount not exceeding 8 ounces avoirdupois per 100 pounds of the finished food. 
(5) purified calcium chloride, calcium citrate, calcium gluconate, calcium lactate, calcium sulfate, monocalcium phosphate, potassium chloride, or any combination of two or more of these salts, in a quantity reasonably necessary to enable the jelling ingredients to produce a jelled finished product. 
(6) ascorbic acid, sorbic acid, sodium sorbate, potassium sorbate, sodium propionate, calcium propionate, sodium benzoate, benzoic acid, methylparaben (methyl- p- hydroxybenzoate), propylparaben (propyl- p- hydroxybenzoate), or any combination of two or more of these, in a quantity reasonably necessary as a preservative but not to exceed 0.1 percent by weight of the finished food. 
(b) the fruit ingredient referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is any one, or any combination of two, three, four, or five of the fruit ingredients complying with the requirements of  150.160 (b) and (c). except as paragraph (d) of this section permits the use of pectin, carrageenan, or salts of carrageenan standardized with nutritive sweetener, no nutritive sweetening ingredient is added, either directly or indirectly, to the fruit ingredient used to make artificially sweetened fruit preserves or artificially sweetened fruit jam. 
(c) the artificial sweetening ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are saccharin, sodium saccharin, calcium saccharin, or any combination of two or more of these. 
(d) the jelling ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are pectin, agar-agar, carob bean gum (also called locust bean gum), guar gum, gum karaya, gum tragacanth, algin (sodium alginate), sodium carboxymethylcellulose (cellulose gum), methylcellulose (meeting u.s.p. requirements and with methoxy content not less than 27.5 percent and not more than 31.5 percent on a dry-weight basis), carrageenan or salts of carrageenan complying with the requirements of  172.620 or  172.626 of this chapter, or any combination of two or more of these. pectin may be standardized with a nutritive sweetening ingredient, but such sweetening ingredient shall not amount to more than 44 percent by weight of the standardized pectin and the quantity of such standardized pectin used shall not exceed 3 percent by weight of the finished food. carrageenan or salts of carrageenan may be standardized with a nutritive sweetening ingredient, but such sweetening ingredient shall not amount to more than 25 percent by weight of the standardized carrageenan or salts of carrageenan and the quantity of such standardized carrageenan or salts of carrageenan used shall not exceed 2 percent by weight of the finished food. 
(e) the name of each artificially sweetened fruit preserve or artificially sweetened fruit jam for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section consists of the words artificially sweetened immediately followed by the name prescribed by  150.160(e)(1) for the fruit preserves or jams which correspond in fruit ingredient to the artificially sweetened article. the words artificially sweetened shall be prominently and conspicuously displayed in letters not smaller than the largest letter used in any other word in the name of the food. 
(f)(1) the jelling ingredient used shall be named on the label by a statement ___ added or with added ___, the blank being filled in with the common name of the jelling ingredient used. 
(2) when one of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement, ___ added or with added ___, the blank being filled in with the words spice, spice oil, or spice extract as appropriate, but in lieu of the word spice in such statement the common name of the spice may be used. 
(3) when the optional ingredient specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section is used, the label shall bear the words sodium hexametaphosphate added or with added sodium hexametaphosphate. 
(4) when any optional ingredient listed in paragraph (a)(6) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement ___ added as a preservative, the blank being filled in with the common name by which the preservative ingredient used is designated in paragraph (a)(6) of this section. 
(g) wherever the name of the food appears on the label of the artificially sweetened fruit preserve or artificially sweetened fruit jam so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the words and statements specified in this section, showing the optional ingredients used, shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, except that the varietal name of the fruit used in preparing such preserve or jam may so intervene. 
(h) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

