" 155.170 
canned peas. 
(a) identity (1) definition. canned peas is the food prepared from fresh or frozen succulent seeds of the pea plant of the species pisum sativum l. but excluding the subspecies macrocarpum. only sweet wrinkled varieties, smooth-skin varieties, or hybrids thereof may be used. the product is packed with water or other suitable aqueous liquid medium to which may be added one or more of the other optional ingredients set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. such food is sealed in a container and, before or after sealing, is so processed by heat as to prevent spoilage. 
(2) optional ingredients. in addition to the optional packing media provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used: 
(i) salt. 
(ii) monosodium glutamate. 
(iii) disodium inosinate. 
(iv) disodium guanylate. 
(v) hydrolyzed vegetable protein. 
(vi) autolyzed yeast extract. 
(vii) one or any combination of two or more of the dry or liquid forms of sugar, invert sugar sirup, dextrose, glucose sirup, and fructose. 
(viii) spice. 
(ix) flavoring (except artificial). 
(x) color additives. 
(xi) calcium salts, the total amount of which added to firm the peas shall not result in more than 350 milligrams/kilogram (0.01 ounce/2.2 pounds) of calcium in the finished food. 
(xii) magnesium hydroxide, magnesium oxide, magnesium carbonate, or any mixture or combination of these in such quantity that the ph of the finished canned peas is not more than 8, as determined by the glass electrode method for the hydrogen ion concentration. 
(xiii) seasonings and garnishes: 
) pieces of green or red peppers or mixtures of both, either of which may be dried, or other vegetables not exceeding in total 15 percent of the drained weight of the finished food. 
) lemon juice or concentrated lemon juice. 
) mint leaves. 
) butter or margarine in a quantity not less that 3 percent by weight of the finished food, or other vegetable or animal fats or oils in a quantity not less than 2.4 percent by weight of the finished foods. when butter, margarine, or other vegetable or animal fats or oils are added, emulsifiers or stabilizers or both may be added, but no color, spice, or flavoring simulating the color or flavor imparted by butter or margarine may be used. 
(3) labeling. (i) the name of the food is peas and may include the designation green. the term early, june, or early june shall precede or follow the name in the case of smooth-skin peas or substantially smooth-skin peas, such as alaska-type peas or hybrids having similar characteristics. where the peas are of sweet green wrinkled varieties or hybrids having similar characteristics, the name may include the designation sweet, wrinkled, or any combination thereof. the term petit pois may be used in conjunction with the name of the food when an average of 80 percent or more of the peas will pass through a circular opening of a diameter of 7.1 millimeters (0.28 inch). if any color additive has been added, the name of the food shall include the term artificially colored. 
(ii) the following shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food: 
) a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the food, as specified in  101.22 of this chapter. 
) a declaration of any spice, seasoning, or garnishing that characterizes the product, e.g., seasoned with green peppers, seasoned with butter, seasoned with ___ oil, the blank to be filled in with the common or usual name of the oil, with added spice, or, in lieu of the word spice, the common or usual name of the spice. 
) the words vacuum pack or vacuum packed when the weight of the liquid in the container, as determined by the method prescribed in  155.3(a) is not more than 20 percent of the net weight, and the container is closed under conditions creating a high vacuum in the container. 
(4) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 
(b) quality. (1) the standard of quality for canned peas is as follows: 
(i) blond and yellow peas. not more than 2 percent of the drained weight is blond and/or yellow peas, i.e., white or yellow but edible peas. 
(ii) blemished peas. not more than 5 percent of the drained weight is blemished peas, i.e., slightly stained or spotted peas. 
(iii) seriously blemished peas. not more than 1 percent of the drained weight is seriously blemished peas, i.e., peas that are hard, shrivelled, spotted, discolored, or otherwise blemished to an extent that the appearance or eating quality is seriously affected. 
(iv) pea fragments. not more than 10 percent of the drained weight is pea fragments, i.e., portions of peas, separated or individual cotyledons, crushed, partial or broken cotyledons, and loose skins, but excluding entire intact peas with skins detached. 
(v) extraneous vegetable material. not more than 0.5 percent of the drained weight is extraneous vegetable material, i.e., vine or leaf or pod material from the pea plant or other such material. 
(vi) alcohol-insoluble solids. the alcohol-insoluble solids of smooth-skin or substantially smooth-skin peas, such as alaska-type peas or hybrids having similar characteristics, may not be more than 23.5 percent and, of sweet green wrinkled varieties or hybrids having similar characteristics, not more than 21 percent based on the procedure set forth in the official methods of analysis of the association of official analytical chemists, 13th ed. (1980), section 30.012, which is incorporated by reference. copies are available from the aoac international, 481 north frederick ave., suite 500, gaithersburg, md 20877, or available for inspection at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(vii) limitation. the sum of the pea material described in paragraphs (b)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), and (v) of this section shall not exceed 12 percent. 
(2) determine compliance as specified in  155.3(b). 
(3) if the quality of canned peas falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in  130.14(a) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified; but in lieu of such general statement of substandard quality when the quality of canned peas falls below the standard in only one respect, the label may bear the alternative statement, below standard in quality, the blank to be filled in with the words specified after the corresponding paragraph under paragraph (b)(1) of this section which such canned peas fail to meet, as follows: (i) excessive blond and/or yellow peas; (ii) excessive blemished peas; (iii) excessive seriously blemished peas; (iv) excessive pea fragments; (v) excessive vegetable material; (vi) excessive mealy. such alternative statement shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, the name peas and any words and statements required or authorized to appear with such name by paragraph (a)(3) of this section. 
(c) fill of container. (1) except in the case of vacuum pack peas, the fill of pea ingredient and packing medium, as determined by the general method for fill of container prescribed in  130.12(b) of this chapter, is not less than 90 percent of the total capacity of the container. 
(2) when the peas and liquid are removed from the container and returned thereto, the leveled peas (irrespective of the quantity of the liquid), 15 seconds after they are so returned, completely fill the container. a container with lid attached by double seam shall be considered to be completely filled when it is filled to 5 millimeters (0.2 inch) vertical distance below the top of the double seam; and a glass container shall be considered to be completely filled when it is filled to 13 millimeters (0.5 inch) vertical distance below the top of the container. 
(3) determine compliance for fill of container as specified in  155.3(b). 
(4) if canned peas fall below the standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) and/or (2) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill specified in  130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified. 

effective date note: in  155.170, those portions of paragraph (a)(2) pertaining to the deletion of magnesium, hydroxide, magnesium oxide, and magnesium carbonate were stayed until further notice at 46 fr 35086, july 1, 1981, effective june 30, 1981.", 
