" 155.201 
canned mushrooms. 
(a) identity (1) definition. canned mushrooms is the food properly prepared from the caps and stems of succulent mushrooms conforming to the characteristics of the species agaricus (psalliota) bisporus or a. bitorquis, in one of the optional styles specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, packed with a suitable liquid medium which may include water; and may contain one or more safe and suitable optional ingredients specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. the food is sealed in a container and, before or after sealing, is so processed by heat as to prevent spoilage. 
(2) styles. the optional styles of the mushroom ingredient referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are: 
(i) buttons consisting of whole mushrooms with attached stems not exceeding 5 millimeters (0.2 inch) in length, measured from the bottom of the veil. 
(ii) whole consisting of whole mushrooms with attached stems cut to a length not exceeding the diameter of the cap, measured from the bottom of the veil. 
(iii) quarters consisting of buttons or whole style cut into four approximately equal parts. 
(iv) slices or sliced consisting of buttons or whole style of which not less than 50 percent are cut parallel to the longitudinal axis of the stem and 2 millimeters to 8 millimeters (0.08 inch to 0.32 inch) in thickness. 
(v) random sliced consisting of buttons or whole style sliced in a random manner. 
(vi) pieces and stems consisting of pieces of caps and stems of irregular shapes and sizes. 
(3) optional ingredients. one or any combination of two or more of the following safe and suitable optional ingredients as provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be used: 
(i) salt. 
(ii) monosodium glutamate. 
(iii) disodium inosinate complying with the provisions of  172.535 of this chapter. 
(iv) disodium guanylate complying with the provisions of  172.530 of this chapter. 
(v) hydrolyzed vegetable protein. 
(vi) autolyzed yeast extract. 
(vii) ascorbic acid (vitamin c) in a quantity not to exceed 132 milligrams for each 100 grams (37.5 milligrams for each ounce) of drained weight of mushrooms. 
(viii) organic acids (except no vinegar is permitted), only where the inside metal of the container is fully enamel-lined and in glass containers with fully enamel-lined caps. ascorbic acid as provided for in paragraph (a)(3)(vii) of this section. 
(ix) calcium disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate (cana edta) in a quantity not to exceed 200 parts per million for use to promote color retention. 
(4) labeling requirements. (i) the name of the food is mushrooms. the style as provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food. 
(ii) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 
(b) [reserved] 
(c) fill of container. (1) the standard of fill of container for canned mushrooms is: 
(i) the fill of the mushroom ingredient and packing medium, as determined by the general method for fill of container prescribed in  130.12(b) of this chapter, is not less than 90 percent of the total capacity of the container. 
(ii) the drained weight of the mushroom ingredient is not less than 56 percent of the water capacity of the container. 
(iii) determine drained weight as specified in  155.3(a). 
(2) determine compliance for minimum fill and drained weight as specified in  155.3(b). 
(3) if the canned mushrooms fall below the standard of fill prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) (i) and/or (ii) and (2) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill specified in  130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein prescribed. 

