" 155.200 
certain other canned vegetables. 
(a) the canned vegetables for which definitions and standards of identity are prescribed by this section are those named in column i of the table set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. the vegetable ingredient in each such canned vegetable is obtained by proper preparation from the succulent vegetable prescribed in column ii of such table. if two or more forms of such ingredient are designated in column iii of such table, the vegetable in each such form is an optional ingredient. to the vegetable ingredient additional ingredients as required or permitted by paragraph (c) of this section are added, and the food is sealed in a container and so processed by heat as to prevent spoilage. 
(b) the table referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is as follows: 
iname or synonym of canned vegetable iisource iiioptional forms of vegetable ingredient artichokes flower buds of the artichoke plant whole; half or halves or halved; whole hearts; halved hearts; quartered hearts. asparagus edible portions of sprouts of the asparagus plant, as follows: 3 and 3/4 in or more of upper end stalks or spears. 3 and 3/4 in or more of peeled upper end peeled stalks or peeled spears. not less than 2 and 3/4 in but less than 3 and 3/4 in of upper end tips. less than 2 and 3/4 in of upper end points. sprouts cut in pieces cut stalks or cut spears. sprouts from which the tip has been removed, cut in pieces bottom cuts or cutstips removed. bean sprouts sprouts of the mung bean shelled beans seed shelled from green or wax bean pods, with or without snaps (pieces of immature unshelled pods) lima beans or butter beans seed shelled from the pods of the lima bean plant beets root of the beet plant whole; slices or sliced; quarters or quartered; dice or diced; cut; shoestring or french style or julienne. beet greens leaves, or leaves and immature root, of the beet plant broccoli heads of the broccoli plant brussels sprouts sprouts of the brussels sprouts plant cabbage cut pieces of the heads of the cabbage plant carrots root of the carrot plant do. cauliflower cut pieces of the head of the cauliflower plant celery stalks of the celery plant cut; hearts. collards leaves of the collard plant dandelion greens leaves of the dandelion plant kale leaves of the kale plant mustard greens leaves of the mustard plant okra pods of the okra plant whole; cut. onions bulb of the onion plant do. parsnips root of the parsnip plant whole; quarters or quartered; slices or sliced; cut; shoestring or french style or julienne. black-eye peas or black-eyed peas seed shelled from pods of the black-eye pea plant, with or without snaps (pieces of immature unshelled pods) field peas seed shelled from pods of the field pea plant (other than the black-eye pea plant), with or without snaps (pieces of immature unshelled pods) green sweet peppers green pods of the sweet pepper plant whole; halves or halved; pieces; dice or diced; strips; chopped. red sweet peppers red-ripe pods of the sweet pepper plant do. pimientos or pimentos red-ripe pods of the pimiento, pimento, pepper plant whole; halves or halved; pieces; dice or diced; slices or sliced; chopped. potatoes tuber of the potato plant whole; slices or sliced; dice or diced; pieces; shoestring or french style or julienne; french fry cut. rutabagas root of the rutabaga plant whole; quarters or quartered; slices or sliced; dice or diced; cut. salsify root of the salsify plant spinach leaves of the spinach plant whole leaf; cut leaf or sliced; chopped. sweet potatoes tuber of the sweet potato plant whole; mashed; pieces or cuts or cut (longitudinally cut halves may be named on labels as halves or halved in lieu of pieces or cuts or cut). swiss chard leaves of the swiss chard plant truffles fruit of the truffle turnip greens leaves of the turnip plant turnips root of the turnip plant whole; quarters or quartered; slices or sliced; dice or diced; cut. 
(c) water is added to the vegetable ingredient, except that pimientos may be canned with or without added water, and sweet potatoes in mashed form are canned without added water. asparagus may be canned with added water, asparagus juice, or a mixture of both. for the purposes of this section, asparagus juice is the clear, unfermented liquid expressed from the washed and heated sprouts or parts of sprouts of the asparagus plant, and mixtures of asparagus juice and water are considered to be water when such mixtures are used as a packing medium for canned asparagus. in the case of artichokes, a vinegar or any safe and suitable organic acid, which either is not a food additive as defined in section 201(s) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or if it is a food additive as so defined, is used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act, is added in such quantity as to reduce the ph of the finished canned vegetable to 4.5 or below. the following optional ingredients, in the case of the vegetables specified, may be added: 
(1) an edible vegetable oil, in the cases of artichokes and pimientos. 
(2) snaps, in the cases of shelled beans, black-eyed peas, and field peas. 
(3) in the case of all vegetables (except canned mashed sweet potatoes as regards the seasonings listed in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section) one or more of the following optional seasoning ingredients may be added in a quantity sufficient to season the food. 
(i) refined sugar (sucrose). 
(ii) refined corn sugar (dextrose). 
(iii) corn sirup, glucose sirup. 
(iv) dried corn sirup, dried glucose sirup. 
(v) spice. 
(vi) a vinegar. 
(vii) green peppers or red peppers which may be dried. 
(viii) mint leaves. 
(ix) onions, which may be dried. 
(x) garlic, which may be dried. 
(xi) horseradish. 
(xii) lemon juice or concentrated lemon juice. 
(xiii) butter or margarine in a quantity not less than 3 percent by weight of the finished food. when butter or margarine is added, safe and suitable emulsifiers or stabilizers, or both, may be added. when butter or margarine is added, no spice or flavoring simulating the color or flavor imparted by butter or margarine is used. 
(4) in the case of all vegetables, the following optional ingredients may be added: 
(i) salt. 
(ii) monosodium glutamate. 
(iii) disodium inosinate complying with the provisions of  172.535 of this chapter. 
(iv) disodium guanylate complying with the provisions of  172.530 of this chapter. 
(v) hydrolyzed vegetable protein. 
(vi) autolyzed yeast extract. 
(5) in the case of all vegetables flavoring (except artificial) may be added. 
(6) in the case of bean sprouts, lima beans, carrots, green sweet peppers, red sweet peppers, and potatoes, any safe and suitable calcium salts may be added as a firming agent. 
(7) in the case of canned artichokes packed in glass containers, ascorbic acid may be added in a quantity not to exceed 32 milligrams per 100 grams of the finished food. 
(8) in the case of canned asparagus, ascorbic acid, erythorbic acid, or the sodium salts of ascorbic acid or erythorbic acid may be added in an amount necessary to preserve color in the white and green-tipped and white color types. 
(9) in the case of canned asparagus packed in glass containers, stannous chloride may be added in a quantity not to exceed 15 parts per million calculated as tin (sn), except that in the case of asparagus packed in glass containers with lids lined with an inert material the quantity of stannous chloride added may exceed 15 parts per million but not 20 parts per million calculated as tin (sn). 
(10) in the case of canned black-eyed peas, disodium edta may be added in a quantity not to exceed 145 parts per million. 
(11) in the case of potatoes, calcium disodium edta may be added in a quantity not to exceed 110 parts per million. 
(12) a vinegar or any safe and suitable organic acid for all vegetables (except artichokes, in which the quantity of such optional ingredient is prescribed by the introductory text of paragraph (c) of this section) in a quantity which, together with the amount of any lemon juice or concentrated lemon juice that may be added, is not more than sufficient to permit effective processing by heat without discoloration or other impairment of the article. 
(d) the name of each canned vegetable for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is the name or any synonym thereof whereby such vegetable is designated in column i of the table in paragraph (b) of this section. 
(e) when two or more forms of the vegetable are specified in column iii of the table in paragraph (b) of this section, the label shall bear the specified word or words, or in case synonyms are so specified, one of such synonyms, showing the form of the vegetable ingredient present; except that in the case of canned spinach, if the whole leaf is the optional form used, the word spinach unmodified may be used in lieu of the words whole leaf spinach. 
(f)(1) if the optional ingredient specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is present, the label shall bear the statement ___ oil added or with added ___ oil, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the oil. 
(2) if asparagus juice is used as a packing medium in canned asparagus, the label shall bear the statement packed in asparagus juice. 
(3) if the optional ingredient specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is present, the label shall bear the statement with snaps. 
(g) the name of the food shall include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the product as specified in  101.22 of this chapter, and a declaration of any spice or seasoning that characterizes the product; for example, with added spice, seasoned with red peppers, seasoned with butter. wherever the name of the vegetable appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the words and statements specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) (1) through (3) of this section shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, except that the varietal name of the vegetable may so intervene. 
(h) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

