" 163.112 
breakfast cocoa. 
(a) description. (1) breakfast cocoa is the food prepared by pulverizing the material remaining after part of the cacao fat has been removed from ground cacao nibs. breakfast cocoa contains not less than 22 percent by weight of cacao fat as determined by the method prescribed in  163.5(b). 
(2) optional alkali ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be used as such in the preparation of breakfast cocoa under the conditions and limitations specified in  163.110(b)(1). 
(3) optional neutralizing agents specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be used as such in the preparation of the breakfast cocoa under the conditions and limitations specified in  163.110(b)(2). 
(4) breakfast cocoa may be spiced, flavored, or seasoned with one or more of the ingredients listed in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section. 
(b) optional ingredients. the following safe and suitable ingredients may be used: 
(1) alkali ingredients. ammonium, potassium, or sodium bicarbonate, carbonate, or hydroxide, or magnesium carbonate or oxide, used as such, or in aqueous solution; 
(2) neutralizing agents. phosphoric acid, citric acid and l-tartaric acid, used as such, or in aqueous solution; 
(3) spices, natural and artificial flavorings, and other seasonings that do not either singly or in combination impart a flavor that imitates the flavor of chocolate, milk, or butter; or 
(4) salt. 
(c) nomenclature. the name of the food is breakfast cocoa, or high fat cocoa. 
(1) when any optional alkali ingredient specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is used, including those used in the preparation of the cacao nibs from which the breakfast cocoa was prepared, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement processed with alkali, or processed with ___, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific alkali ingredient used in the food. 
(2) when any optional neutralizing agent specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is used, including those used in the preparation of the cacao nibs from which the breakfast cocoa was prepared, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement processed with neutralizing agent or processed with ___, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific neutralizing agent used in the food. 
(3) when one or more of the spices, flavorings, or seasonings specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are used in the breakfast cocoa, the label shall bear an appropriate statement, e.g., spice added, flavored with ___, or with ___ added, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the spice, flavoring, or seasoning used, in accordance with  101.22 of this chapter. 
(4) when two or more of the statements set forth in this paragraph are required, such statements may be combined in a manner that is appropriate, but not misleading. 
(5) whenever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements prescribed in this paragraph showing optional ingredients used shall precede or follow the name without intervening printed or graphic matter. 
(d) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.", 
