" 169.179 
vanilla powder. 
(a) vanilla powder is a mixture of ground vanilla beans or vanilla oleoresin or both, with one or more of the following optional blending ingredients: 
(1) sugar. 
(2) dextrose. 
(3) lactose. 
(4) food starch (including food starch-modified as prescribed in  172.892 of this chapter). 
(5) dried corn sirup. 
(6) gum acacia. 
vanilla powder may contain one or any mixture of two or more of the anticaking ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section, but the total weight of any such ingredient or mixture is not more than 2 percent of the weight of the finished vanilla powder. vanilla powder contains in each 8 pounds not less than one unit of vanilla constituent, as defined in  169.3(c). 
(b) the anticaking ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are: 
(1) aluminum calcium silicate. 
(2) calcium silicate. 
(3) calcium stearate. 
(4) magnesium silicate. 
(5) tricalcium phosphate. 
(c)(1) the specified name of the food is vanilla powder _-fold or _-fold vanilla powder, except that if sugar is the optional blending ingredient used, the word sugar may replace the word powder. the blank in the name is filled in with the whole number (disregarding fractions) expressing the number of units of vanilla constituent per 8 pounds of the article. however, if the strength of the article is less than 2-fold, the term _-fold is omitted from the name. 
(2) the label of vanilla powder shall bear the common names of any of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section that are used, except that where the alternative name vanilla sugar is used for designating the food it is not required that sugar be named as an optional ingredient. 
(3) wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the labeling required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter. 
(d) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

