" 169.115 
french dressing. 
(a) description. french dressing is the separable liquid food or the emulsified viscous fluid food prepared from vegetable oil(s) and one or both of the acidifying ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section. one or more of the ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section may also be used. the vegetable oil(s) used may contain an optional crystallization inhibitor as specified in paragraph (c)(11) of this section. all the ingredients from which the food is fabricated shall be safe and suitable. french dressing contains not less than 35 percent by weight of vegetable oil. french dressing may be mixed and packed in an atmosphere in which air is replaced in whole or in part by carbon dioxide or nitrogen. 
(b) acidifying ingredients. (1) any vinegar or any vinegar diluted with water, or any such vinegar or diluted vinegar mixed with an optional acidifying ingredient as specified in paragraph (c)(9) of this section. for the purpose of this paragraph, any blend of two or more vinegars is considered to be a vinegar. 
(2) lemon juice and/or lime juice in any appropriate form, which may be diluted with water. 
(c) other optional ingredients. the following optional ingredients may also be used: 
(1) salt. 
(2) nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners. 
(3) spices and/or natural flavorings. 
(4) monosodium glutamate. 
(5) tomato paste, tomato puree, catsup, sherry wine. 
(6) eggs and ingredients derived from eggs. 
(7) color additives that will impart the color traditionally expected. 
(8) stabilizers and thickeners to which calcium carbonate or sodium hexametaphosphate may be added. dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate may be added in accordance with  172.810 of this chapter. 
(9) citric and/or malic acid, in an amount not greater than 25 percent of the weight of the acids of the vinegar or diluted vinegar calculated as acetic acid. 
(10) sequestrant(s), including but not limited to calcium disodium edta (calcium disodium ethylenediamine- tetraacetate) and/or disodium edta (disodium ethylenediamine-tetraacetate), may be used to preserve color and/or flavor. 
(11) crystallization inhibitors, including but not limited to oxystearin, lecithin, or polyglycerol esters of fatty acids. 
(d) nomenclature. the name of the food is french dressing. 
(e) label declaration. each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 

