" 172.836 
polysorbate 60. 
the food additive polysorbate 60 (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monostearate) which is a mixture of polyoxyethylene ethers of mixed partial stearic and palmitic acid esters of sorbitol anhydrides and related compounds, may be safely used in food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 
(a) the food additive is manufactured by reacting stearic acid (usually containing associated fatty acids, chiefly palmitic) with sorbitol to yield a product with a maximum acid number of 10 and a maximum water content of 0.2 percent, which is then reacted with ethylene oxide. 
(b) the food additive meets the following specifications: 
saponification number 45-55. acid number 0-2. hydroxyl number 81-96. oxyethylene content 65 percent-69.5 percent. 
(c) it is used or intended for use as follows: 
(1) as an emulsifier in whipped edible oil topping with or without one or a combination of the following: 
(i) sorbitan monostearate; 
(ii) polysorbate 65; 
(iii) polysorbate 80; 
whereby the maximum amount of the additive or additives used does not exceed 0.4 percent of the weight of the finished whipped edible oil topping; except that a combination of the additive with sorbitan monostearate may be used in excess of 0.4 percent, provided that the amount of the additive does not exceed 0.77 percent and the amount of sorbitan monostearate does not exceed 0.27 percent of the weight of the finished whipped edible oil topping. 
(2) as an emulsifier in cakes and cake mixes, with or without one or a combination of the following: 
(i) polysorbate 65. 
(ii) sorbitan monostearate. 
when used alone, the maximum amount of polysorbate 60 shall not exceed 0.46 percent of the cake or cake mix, on a dry-weight basis. when used with polysorbate 65 and/or sorbitan monostearate, it shall not exceed 0.46 percent, nor shall the polysorbate 65 exceed 0.32 percent or the sorbitan monostearate exceed 0.61 percent, and no combination of these emulsifiers shall exceed 0.66 percent of the cake or cake mix, all calculated on a dry-weight basis. 
(3) as an emulsifier, alone or in combination with sorbitan monostearate, in nonstandardized confectionery coatings and standardized cacao products specified in  163.123, 163.130, 163.135, 163.140, 163.145, and 163.150 of this chapter, as follows: 
(i) it is used alone in an amount not to exceed 0.5 percent of the weight of the finished nonstandardized confectionery coating or standardized cacao product. 
(ii) it is used with sorbitan monostearate in any combination of up to 0.5 percent of polysorbate 60 and up to 1 percent of sorbitan monostearate: provided, that the total combination does not exceed 1 percent of the weight of the finished nonstandardized confectionery coating or standardized cacao product. 
(4) [reserved] 
(5) as an emulsifier in cake icings and cake fillings, with or without one or a combination of the following: 
(i) polysorbate 65. 
(ii) sorbitan monostearate. 
when used alone, the maximum amount of polysorbate 60 shall not exceed 0.46 percent of the weight of the cake icings and cake fillings. when used with polysorbate 65 and/or sorbitan monostearate, it shall not exceed 0.46 percent, nor shall the polysorbate 65 exceed 0.32 percent or the sorbitan monostearate exceed 0.7 percent, and no combination of these emulsifiers shall exceed 1 percent of the weight of the cake icing or cake filling. 
(6) to impart greater opacity to sugar-type confection coatings whereby the maximum amount of the additive does not exceed 0.2 percent of the weight of the finished sugar coating. 
(7) as an emulsifier in nonstandardized dressings whereby the maximum amount of the additive does not exceed 0.3 percent of the weight of the finished dressings. 
(8) as an emulsifier, alone or in combination with polysorbate 80, in shortenings and edible oils intended for use in foods as follows, when standards of identity established under section 401 of the act do not preclude such use: 
(i) it is used alone in an amount not to exceed 1 percent of the weight of the finished shortening or oil. 
(ii) it is used with polysorbate 80 in any combination providing no more than 1 percent of polysorbate 60 and no more than 1 percent of polysorbate 80, provided that the total combination does not exceed 1 percent of the finished shortening or oil. 
(iii) the 1-percent limitation specified in paragraph (c)(8) (i) and (ii) of this section may be exceeded in premix concentrates of shortening or edible oil if the labeling complies with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. 
(9) as an emulsifier in solid-state, edible vegetable fat-water emulsions intended for use as substitutes for milk or cream in beverage coffee, with or without one or a combination of the following: 
(i) polysorbate 65. 
(ii) sorbitan monostearate. 
the maximum amount of the additive or additives shall not exceed 0.4 percent by weight of the finished edible vegetable fat-water emulsion. 
(10) as a foaming agent in nonalcoholic mixes, to be added to alcoholic beverages in the preparation of mixed alcoholic drinks, at a level not to exceed 4.5 percent by weight of the nonalcoholic mix. 
(11) as a dough conditioner in yeast-leavened bakery products in an amount not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the flour used. 
(12) as an emulsifier, alone or in combination with sorbitan monostearate, in the minimum quantity required to accomplish the intended effect, in formulations of white mineral oil conforming with  172.878 and/or petroleum wax conforming with  172.886 for use as protective coatings on raw fruits and vegetables. 
(13) as a dispersing agent in artificially sweetened gelatin desserts and in artificially sweetened gelatin dessert mixes, whereby the amount of the additive does not exceed 0.5 percent on a dry-weight basis. 
(14) as an emulsifier in chocolate flavored syrups, whereby the maximum amount of the additive does not exceed 0.05 percent in the finished product. 
(15) as a surfactant and wetting agent for natural and artificial colors in food as follows: 
(i) in powdered soft drink mixes in an amount not to exceed 4.5 percent by weight of the mix. 
(ii) in sugar-based gelatin dessert mixes in an amount not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the mix. 
(iii) in artificially sweetened gelatin dessert mixes in an amount not to exceed 3.6 percent by weight of the mix. 
(iv) in sugar-based pudding mixes in an amount not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the mix. 
(v) in artificially sweetened pudding mixes in an amount not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the mix. 
(16) as an emulsifier in ice cream, frozen custard, fruit sherbet, and nonstandardized frozen desserts when used alone or in combination with polysorbate 65 and/or polysorbate 80, whereby the maximum amount of the additives, alone or in combination, does not exceed 0.1 percent of the finished frozen dessert. 
(d) to assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act: 
(1) the label of the additive and any intermediate premixes shall bear: 
(i) the name of the additive. 
(ii) a statement of the concentration or strength of the additive in any intermediate premixes. 
(2) the label or labeling shall bear adequate directions to provide a final product that complies with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. 

