" 172.858 
propylene glycol alginate. 
the food additive propylene glycol alginate (cas reg. no. 9005-37-2) may be used as an emulsifier, flavoring adjuvant, formulation aid, stabilizer, surfactant, or thickener in foods in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 
(a) the additive meets the specifications of the food chemicals codex, 3d ed. (1981), p. 256, which is incorporated by reference (copies are available from the national academy press, 2101 constitution ave. nw., washington, dc 20418, or available for inspection at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. ), and the additional specification that it shall have up to 85 percent of the carboxylic acid groups esterified with the remaining groups either free or neutralized. 
(b) the additive is used or intended for use in the following foods as defined in  170.3(n) of this chapter, when standards of identity established under section 401 of the act do not preclude such use: 
(1) as a stabilizer in frozen dairy desserts, in fruit and water ices, and in confections and frostings at a level not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(2) as an emulsifier, flavoring adjuvant, stabilizer, or thickener in baked goods at a level not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(3) as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or thickener in cheeses at a level not to exceed 0.9 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(4) as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or thickener in fats and oils at a level not to exceed 1.1 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(5) as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or thickener in gelatins and puddings at a level not to exceed 0.6 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(6) as a stabilizer or thickener in gravies and in sweet sauces at a level not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(7) as a stabilizer in jams and jellies at a level not to exceed 0.4 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(8) as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or thickener in condiments and relishes at a level not to exceed 0.6 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(9) as a flavoring adjunct or adjuvant in seasonings and flavors at a level not to exceed 1.7 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(10) as an emulsifier, flavoring adjuvant, formulation aid, stabilizer or thickener, or surface active agent in other foods, where applicable, at a level not to exceed 0.3 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(c) to ensure safe use of the additive, the label of the food additive container shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act: 
(1) the name of the additive, propylene glycol alginate or propylene glycol ester of alginic acid. 
(2) adequate directions for use. 

