" 172.846 
sodium stearoyl lactylate. 
the food additive sodium stearoyl lactylate (cas reg. no. 25-383-997) may be safely used in food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 
(a) the additive, which is a mixture of sodium salts of stearoyl lactylic acids and minor proportions of sodium salts of related acids, is manufactured by the reaction of stearic acid and lactic acid and conversion to the sodium salts. 
(b) the additive meets the specifications of the food chemicals codex, 3d ed. (1981), pp. 300-301, which is incorporated by reference. copies may be obtained from the national academy press, 2101 constitution ave. nw., washington, dc 20418, or may be examined at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(c) it is used or intended for use as follows when standards of identity established under section 401 of the act do not preclude such use: 
(1) as a dough strengthener, emulsifier, or processing aid in baked products, pancakes, and waffles, in an amount not to exceed 0.5 part for each 100 parts by weight of flour used. 
(2) as a surface-active agent, emulsifier, or stabilizer in icings, fillings, puddings, and toppings, at a level not to exceed 0.2 percent by weight of the finished food. 
(3) as an emulsifier or stabilizer in liquid and solid edible fat-water emulsions intended for use as substitutes for milk or cream in beverage coffee, at a level not to exceed 0.3 percent by weight of the finished edible fat-water emulsion. 
(4) as a formulation aid, processing aid, or surface-active agent in dehydrated potatoes, in an amount not to exceed 0.5 percent of the dry weight of the food. 
(5) as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or texturizer in snack dips, at a level not to exceed 0.2 percent by weight of the finished product. 
(6) as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or texturizer in cheese substitutes and imitations and cheese product substitutes and imitations, at a level not to exceed 0.2 percent by weight of the finished food. 
(7) as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or texturizer in sauces or gravies, and the products containing the same, in an amount not to exceed 0.25 percent by weight of the finished food. 
(8) in prepared mixes for each of the foods listed in paragraphs (c) (1) through (7) of this section, provided the additive is used only as specified in each of those paragraphs. 
(9) as an emulsifier, stabilizer, or texturizer in cream liqueur drinks, at a level not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the finished product. 

