" 172.878 
white mineral oil. 
white mineral oil may be safely used in food in accordance with the following conditions: 
(a) white mineral oil is a mixture of liquid hydrocarbons, essentially paraffinic and naphthenic in nature obtained from petroleum. it is refined to meet the following specifications: 
(1) it meets the test requirements of the united states pharmacopeia xx (1980) for readily carbonizable substances (page 532). 
(2) it meets the test requirements of u.s.p. xvii for sulfur compounds (page 400). 
(3) it meets the specifications prescribed in the journal of the association of official analytical chemists, volume 45, page 66 (1962), which is incorporated by reference, after correction of the ultraviolet absorbance for any absorbance due to added antioxidants. copies of the material incorporated by reference are available from the center for food safety and applied nutrition (hfs-200), food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740, or available for inspection at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(b) white mineral oil may contain any antioxidant permitted in food by regulations issued in accordance with section 409 of the act, in an amount not greater than that required to produce its intended effect. 
(c) white mineral oil is used or intended for use as follows: 
use limitation (inclusive of all petroleum hydrocarbons that may be used in combination with white mineral oil) 1. as a release agent, binder, and lubricant in or on capsules and tablets containing concentrates of flavoring, spices, condiments, and nutrients intended for addition to food, excluding confectionery not to exceed 0.6% of the capsule or tablet. 2. as a release agent, binder, and lubricant in or on capsules and tablets containing food for special dietary use not to exceed 0.6% of the capsule or tablet. 3. as a float on fermentation fluids in the manufacture of vinegar and wine to prevent or retard access of air, evaporation, and wild yeast contamination during fermentation in an amount not to exceed good manufacturing practice. 4. as a defoamer in food in accordance with  173.340 of this chapter. 5. in bakery products, as a release agent and lubricant not to exceed 0.15% of bakery products. 6. in dehydrated fruits and vegetables, as a release agent not to exceed 0.02% of dehydrated fruits and vegetables. 7. in egg white solids, as a release agent not to exceed 0.1% of egg white solids. 8. on raw fruits and vegetables, as a protective coating in an amount not to exceed good manufacturing practice. 9. in frozen meat, as a component of hot-melt coating not to exceed 0.095% of meat. 10. as a protective float on brine used in the curing of pickles in an amount not to exceed good manufacturing practice. 11. in molding starch used in the manufacture of confectionery not to exceed 0.3 percent in the molding starch. 12. as a release agent, binder, and lubricant in the manufacture of yeast not to exceed 0.15 percent of yeast. 13. as an antidusting agent in sorbic acid for food use not to exceed 0.25 percent in the sorbic acid. 14. as release agent and as sealing and polishing agent in the manufacture of confectionery not to exceed 0.2 percent of confectionery. 15. as a dust control agent for wheat, corn, soybean, barley, rice, rye, oats, and sorghum applied at a level of no more than 0.02 percent by weight of grain. 16. as a dust control agent for rice iso 100 oil viscosity (100 centistokes (cst) at 100 f) applied at a level of no more than 0.08 percent by weight of the rice grain. 

