" 172.372 
n-acetyl-l-methionine. 
the food additive -acetyl-l-methionine may be safely added to food (except infant foods and foods containing added nitrites/nitrates) as a source of l-methionine for use as a nutrient in accordance with the following conditions: 
(a) n- acetyl-l-methionine (chemical abstracts service registry no. 65-82-7) is the derivative of the amino acid methionine formed by addition of an acetyl group to the alpha- amino group of methionine. it may be in the free, hydrated or anhydrous form, or as the sodium or potassium salts. 
(b) the additive meets the following specifications: 
(1) purity assay, on a dry basis: minimum 99 percent. 
(2) residue on ignition: maximum 0.1 percent. 
(3) specific optical rotation [alpha] 20 : between 19 and 23. 
(4) the additive may contain residues of not more than 500 ppm ethyl acetate; 50 ppm ethyl alcohol; 10 ppm methyl alcohol; and 10 ppm acetone, when used as processing solvents. 
(c) the additive is used or intended for use as a source of l-methionine to improve significantly the biological quality of the total protein in a food containing naturally occurring primarily intact vegetable protein that is considered a significant dietary protein source, provided that: 
(1) a reasonable daily adult intake of the finished food furnishes at least 6.5 grams of naturally occurring primarily intact vegetable protein. 
(2) the additive results in a protein efficiency ratio (per) of protein in the finished ready-to-eat food equivalent to casein as determined by the method specified in paragraph (d) of this section. 
(3) the use of the additive results in a statistically significant increase in the per as determined by the method described in paragraph (d) of this section. the minimum amount of the additive to achieve the desired effect must be used, and the increase in per over the primarily intact naturally occurring vegetable protein in the food must be substantiated as a statistically significant difference with at least a probability (p) value of less than 0.05. 
(4) the amount of the additive added for nutritive purpose shall not exceed the level that will provide a total of 3.1 percent l- and dl-methionine (expressed as the free amino acid) by weight of the total protein of the finished food, including the amount naturally present in free and combined (as protein) form. 
(5) the additive shall not be added to infant foods or to foods containing added nitrites/nitrates. 
(d) compliance with the limitations concerning per under paragraph (c) of the section shall be determined by the method described in sections 43.212-43.216, official methods of analysis of the association of official analytical chemists, 13th ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. copies may be obtained from the aoac international, 481 north frederick ave., suite 500, gaithersburg, md 20877, or may be examined at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. each manufacturer or person employing the additive under the provisions of this section shall keep and maintain throughout the period of use of the additive and for a minimum of 3 years thereafter, records of the tests required by this paragraph and other records required to assure effectiveness and compliance with this regulation. those records shall be made available upon request at all reasonable hours by any officer or employee acting on behalf of the secretary of health and human services. those officers or employees shall be permitted to conduct inventories of raw and finished materials on hand as are deemed necessary to verify the records. 
(e) to assure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the additive and any premix thereof shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, the following: 
(1) the name of the additive contained therein. 
(2) the amounts of additive and each amino acid contained in any mixture. 
(3) adequate directions for use to provide a finished food meeting the limitations prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section. 
(f) when the food additive is added as a nutrient to special dietary foods that are intended for use solely under medical supervision to meet nutritional requirements in specific medical conditions and these foods comply with the requirements of part 105 of this chapter, the food additive is exempt from the limitations in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) and (d) of this section and may be used in those foods at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practices. 

