" 172.135 
disodium edta. 
the food additive disodium edta (disodium ethylenediaminetetraace-tate) may be safely used in designated foods for the purposes and in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 
(a) the additive contains a minimum of 99 percent disodium ethylenedia-minetetraacetate dihydrate (c 10 14 na 2h o). 
(b) it is used or intended for use as follows: 
(1) alone, in the following foods at not to exceed the levels prescribed, calculated as anhydrous calcium disodium edta: 
food limitation (parts per million) use aqueous multivitamin preparations 150 with iron salts as a stabilizer for vitamin b 12 in liquid multivitamin preparations. canned black-eyed peas 145 promote color retention. canned kidney beans 165 preservative. canned strawberry pie filling 500 promote color retention. cooked sausage 36 as a cure accelerator with sodium ascorbate or ascorbic acid. dressings, nonstandardized 75 preservative. french dressing 75 do. frozen white potatoes including cut potatoes 100 promote color retention. gefilte fish balls or patties in packing medium 50 inhibit discoloration. legumes (all cooked canned, other than black-eyed peas) 165 promote color retention. mayonnaise 75 preservative. ready-to-eat cereal products containing dried bananas 315 promote color retention. salad dressing 75 preservative. sandwich spread 100 do. sauces 75 do. based on total weight of finished product including packing medium. in dried banana component of cereal product. 
(2) with calcium disodium edta (calcium disodium ethylenediamine-tetraacetate; calcium disodium (ethylenedinitrilo) tetraacetate), in the following foods at not to exceed, in combination, the levels prescribed, calculated as anhydrous c 10 12 cana 
food limitation (parts per million) use dressings, nonstandardized 75 preservative. french dressing 75 do. mayonnaise 75 do. salad dressing 75 do. sandwich spread 100 do. sauces 75 do. 
(3) alone, as a sequestrant in the nonnutritive sweeteners that are listed in  180.37 of this chapter and that, in addition, are designed for aqueous solution: provided, that the amount of the additive, calculated as anhydrous calcium disodium edta, does not exceed 0.1 percent by weight of the dry nonnutritive sweetener. 
(c) to assure the safe use of the additive: 
(1) the label and labeling of the additive container shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, the name of the additive. 
(2) the label or labeling of the additive container shall bear adequate use directions to provide a final food product that complies with the limitations provided in paragraph (b) of this section. 
(d) in the standardized foods listed in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section the additives are used only in compliance with the applicable standards of identity for such foods. 

