" 173.325 
acidified sodium chlorite solutions. 
acidified sodium chlorite solutions may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 
(a) the additive is produced by mixing an aqueous solution of sodium chlorite (cas reg. no. 7758-19-2) with any generally recognized as safe (gras) acid. 
(b)(1) the additive is used as an antimicrobial agent in poultry processing water in accordance with current industry practice under the following conditions: 
(i) as a component of a carcass spray or dip solution prior to immersion of the intact carcass in a prechiller or chiller tank; 
(ii) in a prechiller or chiller solution for application to the intact carcass; 
(iii) as a component of a spray or dip solution for application to poultry carcass parts; 
(iv) in a prechiller or chiller solution for application to poultry carcass parts; or 
(v) as a component of a post-chill carcass spray or dip solution when applied to poultry meat, organs, or related parts or trim. 
(2) when used in a spray or dip solution, the additive is used at levels that result in sodium chlorite concentrations between 500 and 1,200 parts per million (ppm), in combination with any gras acid at a level sufficient to achieve a solution ph of 2.3 to 2.9. 
(3) when used in a prechiller or chiller solution, the additive is used at levels that result in sodium chlorite concentrations between 50 and 150 ppm, in combination with any gras acid at levels sufficient to achieve a solution ph of 2.8 to 3.2. 
(c) the additive is used as an antimicrobial agent in accordance with current industry practice in the processing of red meat, red meat parts, and organs as a component of a spray or in the processing of red meat parts and organs as a component of a dip. applied as a dip or spray, the additive is used at levels that result in sodium chlorite concentrations between 500 and 1,200 ppm in combination with any gras acid at levels sufficient to achieve a solution ph of 2.5 to 2.9. 
(d)(1) the additive is used as an antimicrobial agent in water and ice that are used to rinse, wash, thaw, transport, or store seafood in accordance with current industry standards of good manufacturing practice. the additive is produced by mixing an aqueous solution of sodium chlorite with any gras acid to achieve a ph in the range of 2.5 to 2.9 and diluting this solution with water to achieve an actual use concentration of 40 to 50 parts per million (ppm) sodium chlorite. any seafood that is intended to be consumed raw shall be subjected to a potable water rinse prior to consumption. 
(2) the additive is used as a single application in processing facilities as an antimicrobial agent to reduce pathogenic bacteria due to cross-contamination during the harvesting, handling, heading, evisceration, butchering, storing, holding, packing, or packaging of finfish and crustaceans; or following the filleting of finfish; in accordance with current industry standards of good manufacturing practice. applied as a dip or spray, the additive is used at levels that result in a sodium chlorite concentration of 1,200 ppm, in combination with any gras acid at levels sufficient to achieve a ph of 2.3 to 2.9. treated seafood shall be cooked prior to consumption. 
(e) the additive is used as an antimicrobial agent on raw agricultural commodities in the preparing, packing, or holding of the food for commercial purposes, consistent with section 201(q)(1)(b)(i) of the act, and not applied for use under section 201(q)(1)(b)(i)(i), (q)(1)(b)(i)(ii), or (q)(1)(b)(i)(iii) of the act, in accordance with current industry standards of good manufacturing practice. applied as a dip or a spray, the additive is used at levels that result in chlorite concentrations of 500 to 1200 parts per million (ppm), in combination with any gras acid at levels sufficient to achieve a ph of 2.3 to 2.9. treatment of the raw agricultural commodities with acidified sodium chlorite solutions shall be followed by a potable water rinse, or by blanching, cooking, or canning. 
(f) the additive is used as an antimicrobial agent on processed, comminuted or formed meat food products (unless precluded by standards of identity in 9 cfr part 319) prior to packaging of the food for commercial purposes, in accordance with current industry standards of good manufacturing practice. applied as a dip or spray, the additive is used at levels that result in sodium chlorite concentrations of 500 to 1200 ppm, in combination with any gras acid at levels sufficient to achieve a ph of 2.5 to 2.9. 
(g) the additive is used as an antimicrobial agent in the water applied to processed fruits and processed root, tuber, bulb, legume, fruiting (i.e., eggplant, groundcherry, pepino, pepper, tomatillo, and tomato), and cucurbit vegetables in accordance with current industry standards of good manufacturing practices, as a component of a spray or dip solution, provided that such application be followed by a potable water rinse and a 24-hour holding period prior to consumption. however, for processed leafy vegetables (i.e., vegetables other than root, tuber, bulb, legume, fruiting, and cucurbit vegetables) and vegetables in the brassica [cole] family, application must be by dip treatment only, and must be preceded by a potable water rinse and followed by a potable water rinse and a 24-hour holding period prior to consumption. when used in a spray or dip solution, the additive is used at levels that result in sodium chlorite concentrations between 500 and 1,200 ppm, in combination with any gras acid at a level sufficient to achieve a solution ph of 2.3 to 2.9. 
(h) the concentration of sodium chlorite is determined by a method entitled determination of sodium chlorite: 50 ppm to 1500 ppm concentration, september 13, 1995, developed by alcide corp., redmond, wa, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 u.s.c. 552(a) and 1 cfr part 51. copies are available from the office of food additive safety (hfs-200), center for food safety and applied nutrition, food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740, 240-402-1200, or may be examined at the center for food safety and applied nutrition's library, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740 20204-0001, or at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 

