" 176.200 
defoaming agents used in coatings. 
the defoaming agents described in this section may be safely used as components of articles intended for use in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food, subject to the provisions of this section. 
(a) the defoaming agents are prepared as mixtures of substances described in paragraph (d) of this section. 
(b) the quantity of any substance employed in the formulation of defoaming agents does not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect in the defoaming agents or any limitation further provided. 
(c) any substance employed in the production of defoaming agents and which is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and  179.45 of this chapter conforms with any specification in such regulation. 
(d) substances employed in the formulation of defoaming agents include: 
(1) substances generally recognized as safe in food. 
(2) substances subject to prior sanction or approval for use in defoaming agents and used in accordance with such sanction or approval. 
(3) substances identified in this paragraph (d)(3) and subject to such limitations as are provided: 
list of substances limitations -butyl alcohol tert-butyl alcohol butyl stearate castor oil, sulfated, ammonium, potassium, or sodium salt cetyl alcohol cyclohexane cyclohexanol diethylene glycol monolaurate diethylene glycol monostearate dimers and trimers of unsaturated c 18 fatty acids derived from: for use only at levels not to exceed 0.1% by weight of total coating solids. animal and vegetable fats and oils. tall oil. dimethylpolysiloxane -(dinonylphenyl)--hydroxy-poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), containing 7 to 24 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of dinonylphenol (cas reg. no. 9014-93-1) for use only in defoaming agents for the production of styrene-butadiene coatings at a level not to exceed 0.05 percent by weight of the finished coating. dipropylene glycol ethyl alcohol fats and oils derived from animal, marine, or vegetable sources: fatty acids derived from animal, marine, or vegetable fats and oils, and salts of such acids, single or mixed, as follows: aluminum. ammonium. calcium. magnesium. potassium. sodium. zinc. formaldehyde for use as preservative of defoamer only. glyceryl mono-12-hydroxystearate glyceryl monostearate hexane hexylene glycol (2-methyl-2,4-pentanediol) isobutyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol kerosene lecithin hydroxylated methyl alcohol methylcellulose methyl esters of fatty acids derived from animal, marine, or vegetable fats and oils methyl oleate methyl palmitate mineral oil mustardseed oil, sulfated, ammonium, potassium, or sodium salt myristyl alcohol naphtha -naphthol for use as preservative of defoamer only. nonylphenol odorless light petroleum hydrocarbons as defined in  178.3650 of this chapter. oleic acid, sulfated, ammonium, potassium, or sodium salt parachlorometacresol for use as preservative of defoamer only. peanut oil, sulfated, ammonium, potassium, or sodium salt petrolatum pine oil polyacrylic acid, sodium salt as a stabilizer and thickener in defoaming agents containing dimethylpolysiloxane. polyethylene polyethylene, oxidized polyethylene glycol (200) dilaurate polyethylene glycol (400) dioleate polyethylene glycol (600) dioleate polyethylene glycol (400) esters of coconut oil fatty acids polyethylene glycol (400) monooleate polyethylene glycol (600) monooleate polyethylene glycol (600) monoricinoleate polyethylene glycol (400) monostearate polyoxybutylene-polyoxypropylene-polyoxyethylene glycol (min. mol. wt. 3,700) polyoxyethylated (min. 3 mols) cetyl alcohol polyoxyethylated (min. 5 mols) oleyl alcohol polyoxyethylated (min. 1.5 mols) tridecyl alcohol polyoxyethylene (min. 15 mols) ester of rosin polyoxyethylene (min. 8 mols) monooleate polyoxyethylene (40) stearate polyoxypropylated (min. 20 mols) butyl alcohol polyoxypropylene glycol (min. mol. wt. 200) polyoxypropylene (min. 20 mols) oleate butyl ether polyoxypropylene-polyoxyethylene glycol (min. mol. wt. 1,900) polyoxypropylene (min. 40 mols) stearate butyl ether potassium pentachlorophenate for use as preservative of defoamer only. potassium trichlorophenate do. propylene glycol monoester of soybean oil fatty acids propylene glycol monoester of tallow fatty acids ricebran oil, sulfated, ammonium, potassium, or sodium salt rosins and rosin derivatives as provided in  178.3870 of this chapter. silica sodium 2-mercaptobenzothiazole for use as preservative of defoamer only. sodium pentachlorophenate do. sodium trichlorophenate do. sperm oil, sulfated, ammonium, potassium, or sodium salt stearyl alcohol tall oil fatty acids tallow fatty acids, hydrogenated or sulfated tallow, sulfated, ammonium, potassium, or sodium salt triethanolamine triisopropanolamine waxes, petroleum 
(e) the defoaming agents are used as follows: 
(1) the quantity of defoaming agent or agents used shall not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended effect, which is to prevent or control the formation of foam. 
(2) the defoaming agents are used in the preparation and application of coatings for paper and paperboard. 

