" 177.2800 
textiles and textile fibers. 
textiles and textile fibers may safely be used as articles or components of articles intended for use in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food, subject to the provisions of this section. 
(a) the textiles and textile fibers are prepared from one or more of the fibers identified in paragraph (d) of this section and from certain other adjuvant substances required in the production of the textiles or textile fibers or added to impart desired properties. 
(b) the quantity of any adjuvant substance employed in the production of textiles or textile fibers does not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect or any limitation further provided. 
(c) any substance employed in the production of textiles or textile fibers that is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and  179.45 of this chapter conforms with any specification in such regulation. 
(d) substances employed in the production of or added to textiles and textile fibers may include: 
(1) substances generally recognized as safe in food. 
(2) substances subject to prior sanction or approval for use in textiles and textile fibers and used in accordance with such sanction or approval. 
(3) substances generally recognized as safe for use in cotton and cotton fabrics used in dry-food packaging. 
(4) substances that by regulation in this part may safely be used in the production of or as a component of textiles or textile fibers and subject to provisions of such regulation. 
(5) substances identified in this paragraph (d)(5), subject to such limitations as are provided: 
list of substances limitations (i) fibers: cotton polyethylene terephthalate complying in composition with the provisions of  177.1630(e)(4)(ii) for use only in the manufacture of items for repeated use. rayon (ii) adjuvant substances: aluminum stearate borax for use as preservative only. butyl-acetyl ricinoleate colorants used in accordance with  178.3297 of this chapter. di- tert -butyl hydroquinone dimethylpolysiloxane ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, sodium salt 4-ethyl-4-hexadecyl morpholinium ethyl sulfate for use only as a lubricant in the manufacture of polyethylene terephthalate fibers specified in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section at a level not to exceed 0.03 percent by weight of the finished fibers. eugenol fats, oils, fatty acids, and fatty alcohols derived from castor, coconut, cottonseed, fish, mustardseed, palm, peanut, rapeseed, ricebran, soybean, sperm, and tall oils and tallow. fats, oils, fatty acids, and fatty alcohols described in the preceding item reacted with one or more of the following substances: -butyl and isobutyl alcohol diethylene glycol diethanolamine glycerol hexylene glycol (2-methyl-2,4-pentanediol) hydrogen isopropyl alcohol methyl alcohol oxygen polyethylene glycol (molecular weight 400-3,000) potassium hydroxide propylene glycol sodium hydroxide sulfuric acid formaldehyde for use as preservative only. glyceryl mono-12-hydroxystearate 2-(9-heptadecenyl)-1-[2-(10-octadecenamido)ethyl-2-imidazolinium ethyl sulfate. hexylene glycol (2-methyl,-2,4-pentanediol) isobutyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol kerosene methyl ester of sulfated ricebran oil mineral oil for use only at a level not to exceed 0.15 percent by weight of finished fibers. mono- and diisopropylated m- and -cresols (isothymol derivative). -oleyl, n -acetyl, n --hydroxy-ethylenediamine petrolatum petroleum sulfonate pine oil polybutene, hydrogenated; complying with the identity prescribed under 21 cfr 178.3740(b) of this chapter. polyethylene, oxidized (air blown) polyvinyl acetate polyvinyl alcohol potassium soap of a saponified sulfated castor oil sodium bis(2,6-dimethylheptyl-4) sulfosuccinate sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate sodium dodecyl benzenesulfonate sodium fluoride for use as preservative only. sodium hydrosulfite sodium hypochlorite sodium lauryl sulfate sodium 2-mercaptobenzothiazole do. sodium pentachlorophenate do. styrene-butadiene copolymer sulfated butyl, isobutyl and propyl oleate tallow tallow, sulfonated titanium dioxide triethanolamine ultramarine blue waxes, petroleum zinc hydrosulfite 
(e) textile and textile fibers are used as articles or components of articles that contact dry food only. 
(f) the provisions of this section are not applicable to jute fibers used as prescribed by  178.3620(d)(2) of this chapter. 

