" 177.1200 
cellophane. 
cellophane may be safely used for packaging food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 
(a) cellophane consists of a base sheet made from regenerated cellulose to which have been added certain optional substances of a grade of purity suitable for use in food packaging as constituents of the base sheet or as coatings applied to impart desired technological properties. 
(b) subject to any limitations prescribed in this part, the optional substances used in the base sheet and coating may include: 
(1) substances generally recognized as safe in food. 
(2) substances for which prior approval or sanctions permit their use in cellophane, under conditions specified in such sanctions and substances listed in  181.22 of this chapter. 
(3) substances that by any regulation promulgated under section 409 of the act may be safely used as components of cellophane. 
(4) substances named in this section and further identified as required. 
(c) list of substances: 
list of substances limitations (residue and limits of addition expressed as percent by weight of finished packaging cellophane) acrylonitrile-butadiene copolymer resins as the basic polymer. acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene copolymer resins do. acrylonitrile-styrene copolymer resins do. acrylonitrile-vinyl chloride copolymer resins do. n- acyl sarcosines where the acyl group is lauroyl or stearoyl for use only as release agents in coatings at levels not to exceed a total of 0.3 percent by weight of the finished packaging cellophane. alkyl ketene dimers identified in  176.120 of this chapter aluminum hydroxide aluminum silicate ammonium persulfate ammonium sulfate behenamide butadiene-styrene copolymer as the basic polymer. 1,3-butanediol n- butyl acetate 0.1 percent. n- butyl alcohol do. calcium ethyl acetoacetate calcium stearoyl-2-lactylate identified in  172.844 of this chapter not to exceed 0.5 percent weight of cellophane. carboxymethyl hydroxyethylcellulose polymer castor oil, hydrogenated castor oil phthalate with adipic acid and fumaric acid-diethyl-ene glycol polyester as the basic polymer. castor oil phthalate, hydrogenated alone or in combination with other phthalates where total phthalates do not exceed 5 percent. castor oil, sulfonated, sodium salt cellulose acetate butyrate cellulose acetate propionate cetyl alcohol clay, natural coconut oil fatty acid (c 12 -c 18 ) diethanolamide, coconut oil fatty acid (c 12 -c 18 ) diethanolamine soap, and diethanolamine mixture having total alkali (calculated as potassium hydroxide) of 16-18% and having an acid number of 25-35 for use only as an adjuvant employed during the processing of cellulose pulp used in the manufacture of cellophane base sheet. copal resin, heat processed as basic resin. damar resin defoaming agents identified in  176.200 of this chapter dialkyl ketones where the alkyl groups are lauryl or stearyl not to exceed a total of 0.35 percent. dibutylphthalate alone or in combination with other phthalates where total phthalates do not exceed 5 percent. dicyclohexyl phthalate do. diethylene glycol ester of the adduct of terpene and maleic anhydride di(2-ethylhexyl) adipate di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate alone or in combination with other phthalates where total phthalates do not exceed 5 percent. diisobutyl phthalate do. dimethylcyclohexyl phthalate do. dimethyldialkyl (c -c 18 ) ammonium chloride 0.005 percent for use only as a flocculant for slip agents. di- n- ocyltin bis (2-ethylhexyl maleate) for use only as a stabilizer at a level not to exceed 0.55 percent by weight of the coating solids in vinylidene chloride copolymer waterproof coatings prepared from vinylidene chloride copolymers identified in this paragraph, provided that such vinylidene chloride copolymers contain not less than 90 percent by weight of polymer units derived from vinylidene chloride. n,n-dioleoyethylenediamine, n,n-dilinoleoylethylene-diamine and n-oleoyl-nlinoleoylethylene-diamine mixture produced when tall oil fatty acids are made to react with ethylenediamine such that the finished mixture has a melting point of 212-228 f., as determined by astm method d127-60 (standard method of test for melting point of petrolatum and microcrystalline wax (revised 1960), which is incorporated by reference; copies are available from university microfilms international, 300 n. zeeb rd., ann arbor, mi 48106, or available for inspection at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. ), and an acid value of 10 maximum 0.5 percent. n,n -dioleoylethylenediamine ( n,n- ethylenebisoleamide) disodium edta distearic acid ester of di(hydroxyethyl) diethylenetriamine monoacetate 0.06 percent. n,n- distearoylethylenediamine ( n,n -ethylenebis stearamide) epoxidized polybutadiene for use only as a primer subcoat to anchor surface coatings to the base sheet. erucamide ethyl acetate ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers complying with  177.1350 2-ethylhexyl alcohol 0.1 percent for use only as lubricant. fatty acids derived from animal and vegetable fats and oils, and the following salts of such acids, single or mixed: aluminum, ammonium, calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium ferrous ammonium sulfate fumaric acid glycerin-maleic anhydride as the basic polymer. glycerol diacetate glycerol monoacetate hydroxyethyl cellulose, water-insoluble hydroxypropyl cellulose identified in  172.870 of this chapter isopropyl acetate residue limit 0.1 percent isopropyl alcohol do. itaconic acid lanolin lauryl alcohol lauryl sulfate salts: ammonium, magnesium, potassium, sodium maleic acid 1 percent. maleic acid adduct of butadienestyrene copolymer melamine formaldehyde as the basic polymer. melamine-formaldehyde modified with one or more of the following: butyl alcohol, diaminopropane, diethylenetriamine, ethyl alcohol, guanidine, imino-bis-butylamine, imino-bis-ethylamine, imino-bis-propylamine, methyl alcohol, polyamines made by reacting ethylenediamine or trimethylenediamine with dichloroethane or dichloropropane, sulfanilic acid, tetraethylenepentamine, triethanolamine, triethylenetetra-mine as the basic polymer, and used as a resin to anchor coatings to substrate. methyl ethyl ketone residue limit 0.1 percent methyl hydrogen siloxane 0.1 percent as the basic polymer. -methylstyrene-vinyltoluene copolymer resins (molar ratio 1-methylstyrene to 3 vinyltoluene) mineral oil, white mono- and bis-(octadecyldiethylene oxide) phosphates (cas reg. no. 62362-49-6) for use only as a release agent at a level not to exceed 0.6 percent by weight of coatings for cellophane. naphthalenesulfonic acid-formaldehyde condensate, sodium salt 0.1 percent, for use only as an emulsifier. nitrocellulose, 10.9 percent-12.2 percent nitrogen nylon resins complying with  177.1500 n- octyl alcohol for use only as a defoaming agent in the manufacture of cellophane base sheet. olefin copolymers complying with  177.1520 oleic acid reacted with n- alkyl trimethylenediamine (alkyl c 16 to c 18 oleic acid, sulfonated, sodium salt oleyl palmitamide n,n -oleoyl-stearylethylenediamine ( n- (2-stearoyl-aminoethyl)oleamide) paraffin, synthetic, complying with  175.250 of this chapter pentaerythritol tetrastearate 0.1 percent. polyamide resins derived from dimerized vegetable oil acids (containing not more than 20 percent of monomer acids) and ethylenediamine as the basic resin for use only in cellophane coatings that contact food at temperatures not to exceed room temperature. polyamide resins having a maximum acid value of 5 and a maximum amine value of 8.5 derived from dimerized vegetable oil acids (containing not more than 10 percent monomer acids), ethylenediamine, and 4,4-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)pentanoic acid (in an amount not to exceed 10 percent by weight of said polyamide resins) as the basic resin, for use only in coatings that contact food at temperatures not to exceed room temperature provided that the concentration of the polyamido resins in the finished food-contact coating does not exceed 5 milligrams per square inch of food-contact surface. polybutadiene resin (molecular weight range 2,000-10,200; bromine number range 210-320) for use only as an adjuvant in vinylidene chloride copolymer coatings. polycarbonate resins complying with  177.1580 polyester resin formed by the reaction of the methyl ester of rosin, phthalic anhydride, maleic anhydride, and ethylene glycol, such that the polyester resin has an acid number of 4 to 11, a drop-softening point of 70 c-92 c, and a color of k or paler polyethylene polyethyleneaminostearamide ethyl sulfate produced when stearic acid is made to react with equal parts of diethylenetriamine and triethylenetetramine and the reaction product is quaternized with diethyl sulfate 0.1 percent. polyethylene glycol (400) monolaurate polyethylene glycol (600) monolaurate polyethylene glycol (400) monooleate polyethylene glycol (600) monooleate polyethylene glycol (400) monostearate polyethylene glycol (600) monostearate polyethylene, oxidized: complying with the identity prescribed in  177.1620(a) polyethylenimine as the basic polymer, for use as a resin to anchor coatings to the substrate and for use as an impregnant in the food-contact surface of regenerated cellulose sheet in an amount not to exceed that required to improve heat-sealable bonding between coated and uncoated sides of cellophane. polyisobutylene complying with  177.1420 polyoxypropylene-polyoxyethylene block polymers (molecular weight 1,900-9,000) for use as an adjuvant employed during the processing of cellulose pulp used in the manufacture of cellophane base sheet. polypropylene complying with  177.1520 polystyrene as the basic polymer. polyvinyl acetate do. polyvinyl alcohol (minimum viscosity of 4 percent aqueous solution at 20 c of 4 centipoises) polyvinyl chloride as the basic polymer. polyvinyl stearate do. n- propyl acetate residue limit 0.1 percent. n- propyl alcohol do. rapeseed oil, blown rosins and rosin derivatives as provided in  178.3870 of this chapter rubber, natural (natural latex solids) silica silicic acid sodium m- bisulfite sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate sodium lauroyl sarcosinate 0.35 percent; for use only in vinylidene chloride copolymer coatings. sodium oleyl sulfate-sodium cetyl sulfate mixture for use only as an emulsifier for coatings; limit 0.005 percent where coating is applied to one side only and 0.01 percent where coating is applied to both sides. sodium silicate sodium stearoyl-2-lactylate identified in  172.846 of this chapter not to exceed 0.5 percent weight of cellophane. sodium sulfate sodium sulfite spermaceti wax stannous oleate 2-stearamido-ethyl stearate stearyl alcohol styrene-maleic anhydride resins as the basic polymer. terpene resins identified in  172.615 of this chapter tetrahydrofuran residue limit of 0.1 percent. titanium dioxide toluene residue limit of 0.1 percent. toluene sulfonamide formaldehyde 0.6 percent as the basic polymer. triethylene glycol triethylene glycol diacetate, prepared from triethylene glycol containing not more than 0.1 percent of diethylene glycol 2,2,4-trimethyl-1,3 pentanediol diisobutyrate for use only in cellophane coatings and limited to use at a level not to exceed 10 percent by weight of the coating solids except when used as provided in  178.3740 of this chapter urea (carbamide) urea formaldehyde as the basic polymer. urea formaldehyde modified with methanol, ethanol, butanol diethylenetriamine, triethylenetetramine, tetraethylenepenta-mine, guanidine, sodium sulfite, sulfanilic acid, imino-bis-ethylamine, imino-bis-propylamine, imino-bis-butylamine, diaminopropane, diaminobutane, aminomethylsulfonic acid, polyamines made by reacting ethylenediamine or trimethylenediamine with dichlorethane or dichloropropane as the basic polymer, and used as a resin to anchor coatings to the substrate. vinyl acetate-vinyl chloride copolymer resins as the basic polymer. vinyl acetate-vinyl chloride-maleic acid copolymer resins do. vinylidene chloride copolymerized with one or more of the following: acrylic acid, acrylonitrile, butyl acrylate, butyl methacrylate, ethyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, itaconic acid, methacrylic acid, methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, propyl acrylate, propyl methacrylate, vinyl chloride do. vinylidene chloride-methacrylate decyloctyl copolymer do. wax, petroleum, complying with  178.3710 of this chapter 
(d) any optional component listed in this section covered by a specific food additive regulation must meet any specifications in that regulation. 
(e) acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisions of  180.22 of this chapter. 

