" 177.2000 
vinylidene chloride/methyl acrylate/methyl methacrylate polymers. 
the vinylidene chloride/methyl acrylate/methyl methacrylate polymers (cas reg. no. 34364-83-5) identified in paragraph (a) of this section may be safely used as articles or as a component of articles intended for use in contact with food subject to the provisions of this section. 
(a) identity. for the purpose of this section, vinylidene chloride/methyl acrylate/methyl methacrylate polymers consist of basic polymers produced by the copolymerization of vinylidene chloride/methyl acrylate/methyl methacrylate such that the basic polymers or the finished food-contact articles meet the specifications prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section. 
(b) optional adjuvant substances. the basic vinylidene chloride/methyl acrylate/methyl methacrylate polymers identified in paragraph (a) of this section may contain optional adjuvant substances required in the production of such basic polymers. these optional adjuvant substances may include substances permitted for such use by regulations in parts 170 through 179 of this chapter, substances generally recognized as safe in food, and substances used in accordance with a prior sanction of approval. 
(c) conditions of use. the polymers may be safely used as articles or as components of articles intended for use in producing, manufacturing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food, including processing of packaged food at temperatures up to 121 c (250 f). 
(d) specifications and limitations. the vinylidene chloride/methyl acrylate/methyl methacrylate basic polymers and/or finished food-contact articles meet the following specifications and limitations: 
(1)(i) the basic vinylidene chloride/methyl acrylate/methyl methacrylate polymers contain not more than 2 weight percent of polymer units derived from methyl acrylate monomer and not more than 6 weight percent of polymer units derived from methyl methacrylate monomer. 
(ii) the basic polymers are limited to a thickness of not more than 0.005 centimeter (0.002 inches). 
(2) the weight average molecular weight of the basic polymer is not less than 100,000 when determined by gel permeation chromatography using tetrahydrofuran as the solvent. the gel permeation chromatography is calibrated with polystyrene standards. the basic gel permeation chromatographic method is described in ansi/astm d3536-76, which is incorporated by reference. copies are available from the american society for testing materials, 100 barr harbor dr., west conshohocken, philadelphia, pa 19428- 2959, or available for inspection at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(3) the basic polymer or food-contact article described in paragraph (a) of this section, when extracted with the solvent or solvents characterizing the type of food and under the conditions of time and temperature characterizing the conditions of its intended use as determined from tables 1 and 2 of  176.170(c) of this chapter, yields net chloroform-soluble extractives in each extracting solvent not to exceed .08 milligram per square centimeter (0.5 milligram per square inch) of food-contact surface when tested by the methods described in  176.170(d). if the finished food-contact article is itself the subject of a regulation in parts 174 through 178 and  179.45 of this chapter, it shall also comply with any specifications and limitations prescribed for it by the regulation. 

