" 177.2490 
polyphenylene sulfide resins. 
polyphenylene sulfide resins (poly(1,4-phenylene sulfide) resins) may be safely used as coatings or components of coatings of articles intended for repeated use in contact with food, in accordance with the following prescribed conditions. 
(a) polyphenylene sulfide resins consist of basic resins produced by the reaction of equimolar parts of p- dichlorobenzene and sodium sulfide, such that the finished resins meet the following specifications as determined by methods titled oxygen flask combustion-gravimetric method for determination of sulfur in organic compounds, determination of the inherent viscosity of polyphenylene sulfide, and analysis for dichlorobenzene in ryton polyphenylene sulfide, which are incorporated by reference. copies are available from the center for food safety and applied nutrition (hfs-200), food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740, or available for inspection at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(1) sulfur content: 28.2-29.1 percent by weight of finished resin. 
(2) minimum inherent viscosity: 0.13 deciliters per gram. 
(3) maximum residual p- dichlorobenzene: 0.8 ppm. 
(b) subject to any limitations prescribed in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter, the following optional substances may be added to the polyphenylene sulfide basic resins in an amount not to exceed that reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect. 
(1) substances generally recognized as safe in food. 
(2) substances used in accordance with prior sanction or approval. 
(3) substances the use of which is permitted in coatings under regulations in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter. 
(c) the finished coatings are thermally cured at temperatures of 700 f and above. 
(d) polyphenylene sulfide resin coatings may be used in contact with food at temperatures not to exceed the boiling point of water; provided that the finished cured coating, when extracted at reflux temperatures for 8 hours separately with distilled water, 50 percent ethanol in water, and 3 percent acetic acid, yields total extractives in each extracting solvent not to exceed 0.02 milligram per square inch of surface and when extracted at reflux temperature for 8 hours with heptane yields total extractives not to exceed 0.1 milligram per square inch of surface. 
(e) polyphenylene sulfide resin coatings containing perfluorocarbon resins complying with  177.1550 may be used in contact with food at temperatures up to and including normal baking and frying temperatures; provided that the finished cured coating, when extracted at reflux temperatures for 2 hours separately with distilled water, 50 percent ethanol in water, 3 percent acetic acid and heptane, yields total extractives in each extracting solvent not to exceed 0.2 milligram per square inch of surface and when extracted at reflux temperature for 1 hour with diphenyl ether yields total extractives not to exceed 4.5 milligrams per square inch of surface. 

