" 177.2410 
phenolic resins in molded articles. 
phenolic resins identified in this section may be safely used as the food-contact surface of molded articles intended for repeated use in contact with nonacid food (ph above 5.0), in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 
(a) for the purpose of this section, the phenolic resins are those produced when one or more of the phenols listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are made to react with one or more of the aldehydes listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, with or without aniline and/or anhydro-formaldehyde aniline (hexahydro-1, 3,5-triphenyl-s-triazine): 
(1) phenols: 
p-tert- amylphenol. p-tert- butylphenol. o-, m-, and p- cresol. p- octylphenol. phenol. o- and p- phenylethylphenol mixture produced when phenol is made to react with styrene in the presence of sulfuric acid catalyst. 
(2) aldehydes: 
acetaldehyde. formaldehyde. paraldehyde. 
(b) optional adjuvant substances employed in the production of the phenolic resins or added thereto to impart desired technical or physical properties include the following: 
asbestos fiber barium hydroxide for use as catalyst. calcium stearate for use as lubricant. carbon black (channel process) diatomaceous earth glass fiber hexamethylenetetramine for use as curing agent. mica oxalic acid for use as catalyst. zinc stearate for use as lubricant. 
(c) the finished food-contact article, when extracted with distilled water at reflux temperature for 2 hours, using a volume-to-surface ratio of 2 milliliters of distilled water per square inch of surface tested, shall meet the following extractives limitations: 
(1) total extractives not to exceed 0.15 milligram per square inch of food-contact surface. 
(2) extracted phenol not to exceed 0.005 milligram per square inch of food-contact surface. 
(3) no extracted aniline when tested by a spectrophotometric method sensitive to 0.006 milligram of aniline per-square inch of food-contact surface. 
(d) in accordance with good manufacturing practice, finished molded articles containing the phenolic resins shall be thoroughly cleansed prior to their first use in contact with food.", 
