" 180.37 
saccharin, ammonium saccharin, calcium saccharin, and sodium saccharin. 
the food additives saccharin, ammonium saccharin, calcium saccharin, and sodium saccharin may be safely used as sweetening agents in food in accordance with the following conditions, if the substitution for nutritive sweeteners is for a valid special dietary purpose and is in accord with current special dietary food regulations and policies or if the use or intended use is for an authorized technological purpose other than calorie reduction: 
(a) saccharin is the chemical, 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one - 1,1 - dioxide (c no s). the named salts of saccharin are produced by the additional neutralization of saccharin with the proper base to yield the desired salt. 
(b) the food additives meet the specifications of the food chemicals codex, 7th ed. (2010), pp. 52-54, 153-154, 898-899, 961-962, which is incorporated by reference. the director of the office of the federal register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 u.s.c. 552(a) and 1 cfr part 51. you may obtain copies from the united states pharmacopeial convention, 12601 twinbrook pkwy., rockville, md 20852 (internet address http://www.usp.org ). copies may be examined at the food and drug administration's main library, 10903 new hampshire ave., bldg. 2, third floor, silver spring, md 20993, 301-796-2039, or at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030 or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html. 
(c) authority for such use shall expire when the commissioner receives the final reports on the ongoing studies in canada and publishes an order on the safety of saccharin and its salts based on those reports and other available data. 
(d) the additives are used or intended for use as a sweetening agent only in special dietary foods, as follows: 
(1) in beverages, fruit juice drinks, and bases or mixes when prepared for consumption in accordance with directions, in amounts not to exceed 12 milligrams of the additive, calculated as saccharin, per fluid ounce. 
(2) as a sugar substitute for cooking or table use, in amounts not to exceed 20 milligrams of the additive, calculated as saccharin, for each expressed teaspoonful of sugar sweetening equivalency. 
(3) in processed foods, in amounts not to exceed 30 milligrams of the additive, calculated as saccharin, per serving of designated size. 
(e) the additives are used or intended for use only for the following technological purposes: 
(1) to reduce bulk and enhance flavors in chewable vitamin tablets, chewable mineral tablets, or combinations thereof. 
(2) to retain flavor and physical properties of chewing gum. 
(3) to enhance flavor of flavor chips used in nonstandardized bakery products. 
(f) to assure safe use of the additives, in addition to the other information required by the act: 
(1) the label of the additive and any intermediate mixes of the additive for manufacturing purposes shall bear: 
(i) the name of the additive. 
(ii) a statement of the concentration of the additive, expressed as saccharin, in any intermediate mix. 
(iii) adequate directions for use to provide a final food product that complies with the limitations prescribed in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. 
(2) the label of any finished food product containing the additive shall bear: 
(i) the name of the additive. 
(ii) the amount of the additive, calculated as saccharin, as follows: 
) for beverages, in milligrams per fluid ounce; 
) for cooking or table use products, in milligrams per dispensing unit; 
) for processed foods, in terms of the weight or size of a serving which shall be that quantity of the food containing 30 milligrams or less of the additive. 
(iii) when the additive is used for calorie reduction, such other labeling as is required by part 105 of this chapter. 

