" 181.32 
acrylonitrile copolymers and resins. 
(a) acrylonitrile copolymers and resins listed in this section, containing less than 30 percent acrylonitrile and complying with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, may be safely used as follows: 
(1) films. (i) acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene copolymersno restrictions. 
(ii) acrylonitrile/butadiene copolymersno restrictions. 
(iii) acrylonitrile/butadiene copolymer blended with vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate (optional at level up to 5 percent by weight of the vinyl chloride resin) resinfor use only in contact with oleomargarine. 
(iv) acrylonitrile/styrene copolymerno restrictions. 
(2) coatings. (i) acrylonitrile/butadiene copolymer blended with polyvinyl chloride resinsfor use only on paper and paperboard in contact with meats and lard. 
(ii) polyvinyl chloride resin blended with either acrylonitrile/butadiene copolymer or acrylonitrile/butadiene styrene copolymer mixed with neoprene, for use as components of conveyor belts to be used with fresh fruits, vegetables, and fish. 
(iii) acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene copolymerno restrictions. 
(iv) acrylonitrile/styrene copolymerno restrictions. 
(3) rigid and semirigid containers. (i) acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene copolymerfor use only as piping for handling food products and for repeated-use articles intended to contact food. 
(ii) acrylonitrile/styrene resinno restrictions. 
(iii) acrylonitrile/butadiene copolymer blended with polyvinyl chloride resinfor use only as extruded pipe. 
(b) limitations for acrylonitrile monomer extraction for finished food-contact articles, determined by using the method of analysis titled gas-solid chromatographic procedure for determining acrylonitrile monomer in acrylonitrile-containing polymers and food-simulating solvents, which is incorporated by reference. copies are available from the center for food safety and applied nutrition (hfs- 200), food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740, or available for inspection at the national archives and records administration (nara). for information on the availability of this material at nara, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. 
(1) in the case of single-use articles having a volume to surface ratio of 10 milliliters or more per square inch of food-contact surface0.003 milligram/square inch when extracted to equilibrium at 120 f with food-simulating solvents appropriate to the intended conditions of use. 
(2) in the case of single-use articles having a volume to surface ratio of less than 10 milliliters per square inch of food-contact surface0.3 part per million calculated on the basis of the volume of the container when extracted to equilibrium at 120 f with food-simulating solvents appropriate to the intended conditions of use. 
(3) in the case of repeated-use articles0.003 milligram/square inch when extracted at a time equivalent to initial batch usage utilizing food-simulating solvents and temperatures appropriate to the intended conditions of use. 
the food-simulating solvents shall include, where applicable, distilled water, 8 percent or 50 percent ethanol, 3 percent acetic acid, and either -heptane or an appropriate oil or fat. 
(c) acrylonitrile monomer may present a hazard to health when ingested. accordingly, any food-contact article containing acrylonitrile copolymers or resins that yield acrylonitrile monomer in excess of that amount provided for in paragraph (b) of this section shall be deemed to be adulterated in violation of section 402 of the act. 

