" 182.1 
substances that are generally recognized as safe. 
(a) it is impracticable to list all substances that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use. however, by way of illustration, the commissioner regards such common food ingredients as salt, pepper, vinegar, baking powder, and monosodium glutamate as safe for their intended use. this part includes additional substances that, when used for the purposes indicated, in accordance with good manufacturing practice, are regarded by the commissioner as generaly recognized as safe for such uses. 
(b) for the purposes of this section, good manufacturing practice shall be defined to include the following restrictions: 
(1) the quantity of a substance added to food does not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish its intended physical, nutritional, or other technical effect in food; and 
(2) the quantity of a substance that becomes a component of food as a result of its use in the manufacturing, processing, or packaging of food, and which is not intended to accomplish any physical or other technical effect in the food itself, shall be reduced to the extent reasonably possible. 
(3) the substance is of appropriate food grade and is prepared and handled as a food ingredient. upon request the commissioner will offer an opinion, based on specifications and intended use, as to whether or not a particular grade or lot of the substance is of suitable purity for use in food and would generally be regarded as safe for the purpose intended, by experts qualified to evaluate its safety. 
(c) the inclusion of substances in the list of nutrients does not constitute a finding on the part of the department that the substance is useful as a supplement to the diet for humans. 
(d) substances that are generally recognized as safe for their intended use within the meaning of section 409 of the act are listed in this part. when the status of a substance has been reevaluated, it will be deleted from this part, and will be issued as a new regulation under the appropriate part, e.g., affirmed as gras under part 184 or 186 of this chapter; food additive regulation under parts 170 through 180 of this chapter; interim food additive regulation under part 180 of this chapter; or prohibited from use in food under part 189 of this chapter. 

