" 201.71 
magnesium labeling. 
(a) the labeling of over-the-counter (otc) drug products intended for oral ingestion shall contain the magnesium content per dosage unit (e.g., tablet, teaspoonful) if the magnesium content of a single maximum recommended dose of the product (which may be one or more dosage units) is 8 milligrams or more. otc drug products intended for oral ingestion include gum and lozenge dosage forms, but do not include dentifrices, mouthwashes, or mouth rinses. 
(b) the magnesium content shall be expressed in milligrams or grams per dosage unit and shall include the total amount of magnesium regardless of the source, i.e., from both active and inactive ingredients. if the dosage unit contains less than 1 gram of magnesium, milligrams should be used. the magnesium content shall be rounded-off to the nearest 5 milligrams (or nearest tenth of a gram if over 1 gram). the magnesium content per dosage unit shall follow the heading other information as stated in  201.66(c)(7). 
(c) the labeling of otc drug products intended for oral ingestion shall contain the following statement under the heading warning (or warnings if it appears with additional warning statements) if the amount of magnesium present in the labeled maximum daily dose of the product is more than 600 milligrams: ask a doctor before use if you have [in bold type] [bullet] kidney disease [bullet] a magnesium-restricted diet. the warnings in  201.64(c), 201.70(c), 201.71(c), and 201.72(c) may be combined, if applicable, provided the ingredients are listed in alphabetical order, e.g., a magnesium or potassium-restricted diet. 
see  201.66(b)(4) of this chapter for definition of bullet symbol. 
(d) any product subject to this paragraph that is not labeled as required by this paragraph and that is initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after the following dates is misbranded under sections 201(n) and 502(a) and (f) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. 
(1) as of the date of approval of the application for any single entity and combination products subject to drug marketing applications approved on or after april 23, 2004. 
(2) september 24. 2005, for all otc drug products subject to any otc drug monograph, not yet the subject of any otc drug monograph, or subject to drug marketing applications approved before april 23, 2004. 

