" 201.64 
sodium labeling. 
(a) the labeling of over-the-counter (otc) drug products intended for oral ingestion shall contain the sodium content per dosage unit (e.g., tablet, teaspoonful) if the sodium content of a single maximum recommended dose of the product (which may be one or more dosage units) is 5 milligrams or more. otc drug products intended for oral ingestion include gum and lozenge dosage forms, but do not include dentifrices, mouthwashes, or mouth rinses. 
(b) the sodium content shall be expressed in milligrams per dosage unit and shall include the total amount of sodium regardless of the source, i.e., from both active and inactive ingredients. the sodium content shall be rounded-off to the nearest whole number. the sodium content per dosage unit shall follow the heading other information as stated in  201.66(c)(7). 
(c) the labeling of otc drug products intended for oral ingestion shall contain the following statement under the heading warning (or warnings if it appears with additional warning statements) if the amount of sodium present in the labeled maximum daily dose of the product is more than 140 milligrams: ask a doctor before use if you have [in bold type] [bullet] a sodium-restricted diet. the warnings in  201.64(c), 201.70(c), 201.71(c), and 201.72(c) may be combined, if applicable, provided the ingredients are listed in alphabetical order, e g., a calcium or sodium restricted diet. 
see  201 .66(b)(4) of this chapter for definition of bullet symbol. 
(d) the term sodium free may be used in the labeling of otc drug products intended for oral ingestion if the amount of sodium in the labeled maximum daily dose is 5 milligrams or less and the amount of sodium per dosage unit is 0 milligram (when rounded-off in accord with paragraph (b) of this section). 
(e) the term very low sodium may be used in the labeling of otc drug products intended for oral ingestion if the amount of sodium in the labeled maximum daily dose is 35 milligrams or less. 
(f) the term low sodium may be used in the labeling of otc drug products intended for oral ingestion if the amount of sodium in the labeled maximum daily dose is 140 milligrams or less. 
(g) the term salt is not synonymous with the term sodium and shall not be used interchangeably or substituted for the term sodium. 
(h) the terms sodium free, very low sodium, and low sodium shall be in print size and style no larger than the product's statement of identity and shall not be unduly prominent in print size or style compared to the statement of identity. 
(i) any product subject to this paragraph that contains sodium bicarbonate, sodium phosphate, or sodium biphosphate as an active ingredient for oral ingestion and that is not labeled as required by this paragraph and that is initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after april 22, 1997, is misbranded under sections 201(n) and 502 (a) and (f) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (the act). 
(j) any product subject to paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section that is not labeled as required and that is initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after the following dates is misbranded under sections 201(n) and 502(a) and (f) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. 
(1) as of the date of approval of the application for any single entity and combination products subject to drug marketing applications approved on or after april 23, 2004. 
(2) septemeber 24, 2005, for all otc drug products subject to any otc drug monograph, not yet the subject of any otc drug monograph, or subject to drug marketing applications approved before april 23, 2004. 
(k) the labeling of otc drug products intended for rectal administration containing dibasic sodium phosphate and/or monobasic sodium phosphate shall contain the sodium content per delivered dose if the sodium content is 5 milligrams or more. the sodium content shall be expressed in milligrams or grams. if less than 1 gram, milligrams should be used. the sodium content shall be rounded-off to the nearest whole number if expressed in milligrams (or nearest tenth of a gram if expressed in grams). the sodium content per delivered dose shall follow the heading other information as stated in  201.66(c)(7). any product subject to this paragraph that contains dibasic sodium phosphate and/or monobasic sodium phosphate as an active ingredient intended for rectal administration and that is not labeled as required by this paragraph and that is initially introduced or initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after november 29, 2005, is misbranded under sections 201(n) and 502(a) and (f) of the act. 

