" 207.20 
who must register and submit a drug list. 
(a) owners or operators of all drug establishments, not exempt under section 510(g) of the act or subpart b of this part 207, that engage in the manufacture, preparation, propagation, compounding, or processing of a drug or drugs shall register and submit a list of every drug in commercial distribution (except that registration and listing information may be submitted by the parent, subsidiary, and/or affiliate company for all establishments when operations are conducted at more than one establishment and there exists joint ownership and control among all the establishments). drug listing is not required for the manufacturing, preparation, propagation, compounding, or processing of an animal feed bearing or containing an animal drug (i.e., a type b or type c medicated feed), nor is drug listing required for establishments engaged in drug product salvaging. drug products manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed in any state as defined in section 201(a)(1) of the act must be listed whether or not the output of such establishments or any particular drug so listed enters interstate commerce. no owner or operator may register an establishment if any part of the establishment is registered by any other owner or operator. 
(b) owners or operators of establishments not otherwise required to register under section 510 of the act that distribute under their own label or trade name a drug manufactured or processed by a registered establishment may elect to submit listing information directly to fda and to obtain a labeler code. a distributor who submits drug listing information shall include the registration number of the drug establishment that manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed each drug listed. all distributors who submit drug listing information to fda assume full responsibility for compliance with all of the requirements of this part. each such distributor at the time of submitting or updating drug listing information as required under  207.30 shall certify to the registered establishment that the submission has been made by providing a signed copy of form fda-2656 (registration of drug establishment) to the registered establishment that manufactures or processes the drug. each such distributor shall submit the original of form fda-2656 showing this certification to fda, and shall accompany the certification with a list showing the national drug code number that the distributor has assigned to each drug product. if a distributor does not elect to submit drug listing information directly to fda and to obtain a labeler code, the registered establishment shall submit the drug listing information. distributors or registered establishments shall use form fda-2658 (registered establishments' report of private label distributors) to submit drug listing information or to request a labeler code, or both. 
(c) before beginning manufacture or processing of a drug subject to one of the following applications, an owner or operator of an establishment is required to register before the agency approves or grants it: a new drug application, an abbreviated new drug application, a new animal drug application, an abbreviated new animal drug application, a medicated feed mill license application, a biologics license application, or a request for addition to the index. 
(d) no registration fee is required. 
(e) registration and listing do not constitute an admission, or agreement, or determination that a product is a drug as defined in section 201(g) of the act. 
(f) owners and operators of establishments or persons engaged in the recovery, screening, testing, processing, storage, or distribution of human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products, as defined in  1271.3(d) of this chapter, that are regulated under section 351 of the public health service act and/or the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act must register and list those human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products with the center for biologics evaluation and research on form fda 3356 following the procedures set out in subpart b of part 1271 of this chapter, instead of the procedures for registration and listing contained in this part, except that the additional listing information requirements in  207.31 remain applicable. 

