" 212.40 
how must i control the components i use to produce pet drugs and the containers and closures i package them in? 
(a) written procedures. you must establish, maintain, and follow written procedures describing the receipt, login, identification, storage, handling, testing, and acceptance and/or rejection of components and drug product containers and closures. the procedures must be adequate to ensure that the components, containers, and closures are suitable for their intended use. 
(b) written specifications. you must establish appropriate written specifications for the identity, quality, and purity of components and for the identity and quality of drug product containers and closures. 
(c) examination and testing. upon receipt, each lot of components and containers and closures must be uniquely identified and tested or examined to determine whether the lot complies with your specifications. you must not use in pet drug production any lot that does not meet its specifications, including any expiration date if applicable, or that has not yet received its material release. any incoming lot must be appropriately designated as quarantined, accepted, or rejected. you must use a reliable supplier as a source of each lot of each component, container, and closure. 
(1)(i) if you conduct finished-product testing of a pet drug product that includes testing to ensure that the correct components have been used, you must determine that each lot of incoming components used in that pet drug product complies with written specifications by examining a certificate of analysis provided by the supplier. you are not required to perform a specific identity test on any of those components. 
(ii) if you do not conduct finished-product testing of a pet drug product that ensures that the correct components have been used, you must conduct identity testing on each lot of a component that yields an active ingredient and each lot of an inactive ingredient used in that pet drug product. this testing must be conducted using tests that are specific to each component that yields an active ingredient and each inactive ingredient. for any other component, such as a solvent or reagent, that is not the subject of finished-product testing, you must determine that each lot complies with written specifications by examining a certificate of analysis provided by the supplier; if you use such a component to prepare an inactive ingredient on site, you must perform an identity test on the components used to make the inactive ingredient before the components are released for use. however, if you use as an inactive ingredient a product that is approved under section 505 of the act (21 u.s.c. 355) and is marketed as a finished drug product intended for intravenous administration, you need not perform a specific identity test on that ingredient. 
(2) you must examine a representative sample of each lot of containers and closures for conformity to its written specifications. you must perform at least a visual identification of each lot of containers and closures. 
(d) handling and storage. you must handle and store components, containers, and closures in a manner that prevents contamination, mix-ups, and deterioration and ensures that they are and remain suitable for their intended use. 
(e) records. you must keep a record for each shipment of each lot of components, containers, and closures that you receive. the record must include the identity and quantity of each shipment, the supplier's name and lot number, the date of receipt, the results of any testing performed, the disposition of rejected material, and the expiration date (where applicable).", 
