" 310.100 
new drug status opinions; statement of policy. 
(a) over the years since 1938 the food and drug administration has given informal advice to inquirers as to the new drug status of preparations. these drugs have sometimes been identified only by general statements of composition. generally, such informal opinions were incorporated in letters that did not explicitly relate all of the necessary conditions and qualifications such as the quantitative formula for the drug and the conditions under which it was prescribed, recommended, or suggested. this has contributed to misunderstanding and misinterpretation of such opinions. 
(b) these informal opinions that an article is not a new drug or no longer a new drug require reexamination under the kefauver-harris act (public law 87-781; 76 stat. 788-89). in particular, when approval of a new drug application is withdrawn under provisions of section 505(e) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, a drug generally recognized as safe may become a new drug within the meaning of section 201(p) of said act as amended by the kefauver-harris act on october 10, 1962. this is of special importance by reason of proposed actions to withdraw approval of new drug applications for lack of substantial evidence of effectiveness as a result of reports of the national academy of sciencesnational research council on its review of drug effectiveness; for example, see the notice published in the federal register of january 23, 1968 (33 fr 818), regarding rutin, quercetin, et al. 
(c) any marketed drug is a new drug if any labeling change made after october 9, 1962, recommends or suggests new conditions of use under which the drug is not generally recognized as safe and effective by qualified experts. undisclosed or unreported side effects as well as the emergence of new knowledge presenting questions with respect to the safety or effectiveness of a drug may result in its becoming a new drug even though it was previously considered not a new drug. any previously given informal advice that an article is not a new drug does not apply to such an article if it has been changed in formulation, manufacture control, or labeling in a way that may significantly affect the safety of the drug. 
(d) for these reasons, all opinions previously given by the food and drug administration to the effect that an article is not a new drug or is no longer a new drug are hereby revoked. this does not mean that all articles that were the subjects of such prior opinions will be regarded as new drugs. the prior opinions will be replaced by opinions of the food and drug administration that are qualified and current on when an article is not a new drug, as set forth in this subchapter. 

