" 310.305 
records and reports concerning adverse drug experiences on marketed prescription drugs for human use without approved new drug applications. 
(b) * * * 
individual case safety report (icsr). a description of an adverse drug experience related to an individual patient or subject. 
icsr attachments. documents related to the adverse drug experience described in an icsr, such as medical records, hospital discharge summaries, or other documentation. 
(c) reporting requirements. each person identified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section must submit to fda adverse drug experience information as described in this section. except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, 15-day alert reports and followup reports, including icsrs and any icsr attachments, must be submitted to the agency in electronic format as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. 
(1) postmarketing 15-day alert reports. (i) any person whose name appears on the label of a marketed prescription drug product as its manufacturer, packer, or distributor must report to fda each adverse drug experience received or otherwise obtained that is both serious and unexpected as soon as possible, but no later than 15 calendar days from initial receipt of the information by the person whose name appears on the label. each report must be accompanied by the current content of labeling in electronic format as an icsr attachment unless it is already on file at fda. 
(3) submission of reports. * * * if a packer or distributor elects to submit these adverse drug experience reports to the manufacturer rather than to fda, it must submit, by any appropriate means, each report to the manufacturer within 5 calendar days of its receipt by the packer or distributor, and the manufacturer must then comply with the requirements of this section even if its name does not appear on the label of the drug product. * * * 
(4) [reserved] 
(d) information reported on icsrs. icsrs include the following information: 
(1) patient information. 
(i) patient identification code; 
(ii) patient age at the time of adverse drug experience, or date of birth; 
(iii) patient gender; and 
(iv) patient weight. 
(2) adverse drug experience. 
(i) outcome attributed to adverse drug experience; 
(ii) date of adverse drug experience; 
(iii) date of icsr submission; 
(iv) description of adverse drug experience (including a concise medical narrative); 
(v) adverse drug experience term(s); 
(vi) description of relevant tests, including dates and laboratory data; and 
(vii) other relevant patient history, including preexisting medical conditions. 
(3) suspect medical product(s). 
(i) name; 
(ii) dose, frequency, and route of administration used; 
(iii) therapy dates; 
(iv) diagnosis for use (indication); 
(v) whether the product is a combination product as defined in  3.2(e) of this chapter; 
(vi) whether the product is a prescription or nonprescription product; 
(vii) whether adverse drug experience abated after drug use stopped or dose reduced; 
(viii) whether adverse drug experience reappeared after reintroduction of drug; 
(ix) lot number; 
(x) expiration date; 
(xi) national drug code (ndc) number; and 
(xii) concomitant medical products and therapy dates. 
(4) initial reporter information. 
(i) name, address, and telephone number; 
(ii) whether the initial reporter is a health care professional; and 
(iii) occupation, if a health care professional. 
(5) manufacturer, packer, or distributor information. 
(i) manufacturer, packer, or distributor name and contact office address; 
(ii) telephone number; 
(iii) report source, such as spontaneous, literature, or study; 
(iv) date the report was received by manufacturer, packer, or distributor; 
(v) whether the icsr is a 15-day alert report; 
(vi) whether the icsr is an initial report or followup report; and 
(vii) unique case identification number, which must be the same in the initial report and any subsequent followup report(s). 
(e) electronic format for submissions. (1) each report required to be submitted to fda under this section, including the icsr and any icsr attachments, must be submitted in an electronic format that fda can process, review, and archive. fda will issue guidance on how to provide the electronic submission (e.g., method of transmission, media, file formats, preparation and organization of files). 
(2) each person identified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may request, in writing, a temporary waiver of the requirements in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. these waivers will be granted on a limited basis for good cause shown. fda will issue guidance on requesting a waiver of the requirements in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. 
(f) patient privacy. manufacturers, packers, and distributors should not include in reports under this section the names and addresses of individual patients; instead, the manufacturer, packer, and distributor should assign a unique code for identification of the patient. the manufacturer, packer, and distributor should include the name of the reporter from whom the information was received as part of the initial reporter information, even when the reporter is the patient. the names of patients, individual reporters, health care professionals, hospitals, and geographical identifiers in adverse drug experience reports are not releasable to the public under fda's public information regulations in part 20 of this chapter.", 
