" 312.160 
drugs for investigational use in laboratory research animals or in vitro tests. 
(a) authorization to ship. (1)(i) a person may ship a drug intended solely for tests in vitro or in animals used only for laboratory research purposes if it is labeled as follows: 
caution: contains a new drug for investigational use only in laboratory research animals, or for tests in vitro. not for use in humans. 
(ii) a person may ship a biological product for investigational in vitro diagnostic use that is listed in  312.2(b)(2)(ii) if it is labeled as follows: 
caution: contains a biological product for investigational in vitro diagnostic tests only. 
(2) a person shipping a drug under paragraph (a) of this section shall use due diligence to assure that the consignee is regularly engaged in conducting such tests and that the shipment of the new drug will actually be used for tests in vitro or in animals used only for laboratory research. 
(3) a person who ships a drug under paragraph (a) of this section shall maintain adequate records showing the name and post office address of the expert to whom the drug is shipped and the date, quantity, and batch or code mark of each shipment and delivery. records of shipments under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section are to be maintained for a period of 2 years after the shipment. records and reports of data and shipments under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section are to be maintained in accordance with  312.57(b). the person who ships the drug shall upon request from any properly authorized officer or employee of the food and drug administration, at reasonable times, permit such officer or employee to have access to and copy and verify records required to be maintained under this section. 
(b) termination of authorization to ship. fda may terminate authorization to ship a drug under this section if it finds that: 
(1) the sponsor of the investigation has failed to comply with any of the conditions for shipment established under this section; or 
(2) the continuance of the investigation is unsafe or otherwise contrary to the public interest or the drug is used for purposes other than bona fide scientific investigation. fda will notify the person shipping the drug of its finding and invite immediate correction. if correction is not immediately made, the person shall have an opportunity for a regulatory hearing before fda pursuant to part 16. 
(c) disposition of unused drug. the person who ships the drug under paragraph (a) of this section shall assure the return of all unused supplies of the drug from individual investigators whenever the investigation discontinues or the investigation is terminated. the person who ships the drug may authorize in writing alternative disposition of unused supplies of the drug provided this alternative disposition does not expose humans to risks from the drug, either directly or indirectly (e.g., through food-producing animals). the shipper shall maintain records of any alternative disposition. 

