" 312.53 
selecting investigators and monitors. 
(a) selecting investigators. a sponsor shall select only investigators qualified by training and experience as appropriate experts to investigate the drug. 
(b) control of drug. a sponsor shall ship investigational new drugs only to investigators participating in the investigation. 
(c) obtaining information from the investigator. before permitting an investigator to begin participation in an investigation, the sponsor shall obtain the following: 
(1) a signed investigator statement (form fda-1572) containing: 
(i) the name and address of the investigator; 
(ii) the name and code number, if any, of the protocol(s) in the ind identifying the study(ies) to be conducted by the investigator; 
(iii) the name and address of any medical school, hospital, or other research facility where the clinical investigation(s) will be conducted; 
(iv) the name and address of any clinical laboratory facilities to be used in the study; 
(v) the name and address of the irb that is responsible for review and approval of the study(ies); 
(vi) a commitment by the investigator that he or she: 
) will conduct the study(ies) in accordance with the relevant, current protocol(s) and will only make changes in a protocol after notifying the sponsor, except when necessary to protect the safety, the rights, or welfare of subjects; 
) will comply with all requirements regarding the obligations of clinical investigators and all other pertinent requirements in this part; 
) will personally conduct or supervise the described investigation(s); 
) will inform any potential subjects that the drugs are being used for investigational purposes and will ensure that the requirements relating to obtaining informed consent (21 cfr part 50) and institutional review board review and approval (21 cfr part 56) are met; 
) will report to the sponsor adverse experiences that occur in the course of the investigation(s) in accordance with  312.64; 
) has read and understands the information in the investigator's brochure, including the potential risks and side effects of the drug; and 
) will ensure that all associates, colleagues, and employees assisting in the conduct of the study(ies) are informed about their obligations in meeting the above commitments. 
(vii) a commitment by the investigator that, for an investigation subject to an institutional review requirement under part 56, an irb that complies with the requirements of that part will be responsible for the initial and continuing review and approval of the clinical investigation and that the investigator will promptly report to the irb all changes in the research activity and all unanticipated problems involving risks to human subjects or others, and will not make any changes in the research without irb approval, except where necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to the human subjects. 
(viii) a list of the names of the subinvestigators (e.g., research fellows, residents) who will be assisting the investigator in the conduct of the investigation(s). 
(2) curriculum vitae. a curriculum vitae or other statement of qualifications of the investigator showing the education, training, and experience that qualifies the investigator as an expert in the clinical investigation of the drug for the use under investigation. 
(3) clinical protocol. (i) for phase 1 investigations, a general outline of the planned investigation including the estimated duration of the study and the maximum number of subjects that will be involved. 
(ii) for phase 2 or 3 investigations, an outline of the study protocol including an approximation of the number of subjects to be treated with the drug and the number to be employed as controls, if any; the clinical uses to be investigated; characteristics of subjects by age, sex, and condition; the kind of clinical observations and laboratory tests to be conducted; the estimated duration of the study; and copies or a description of case report forms to be used. 
(4) financial disclosure information. sufficient accurate financial information to allow the sponsor to submit complete and accurate certification or disclosure statements required under part 54 of this chapter. the sponsor shall obtain a commitment from the clinical investigator to promptly update this information if any relevant changes occur during the course of the investigation and for 1 year following the completion of the study. 
(d) selecting monitors. a sponsor shall select a monitor qualified by training and experience to monitor the progress of the investigation. 

