" 312.47 
meetings. 
(a) general. meetings between a sponsor and the agency are frequently useful in resolving questions and issues raised during the course of a clinical investigation. fda encourages such meetings to the extent that they aid in the evaluation of the drug and in the solution of scientific problems concerning the drug, to the extent that fda's resources permit. the general principle underlying the conduct of such meetings is that there should be free, full, and open communication about any scientific or medical question that may arise during the clinical investigation. these meetings shall be conducted and documented in accordance with part 10. 
(b) end-of-phase 2 meetings and meetings held before submission of a marketing application. at specific times during the drug investigation process, meetings between fda and a sponsor can be especially helpful in minimizing wasteful expenditures of time and money and thus in speeding the drug development and evaluation process. in particular, fda has found that meetings at the end of phase 2 of an investigation (end-of-phase 2 meetings) are of considerable assistance in planning later studies and that meetings held near completion of phase 3 and before submission of a marketing application (pre-nda meetings) are helpful in developing methods of presentation and submission of data in the marketing application that facilitate review and allow timely fda response. 
(1) end-of-phase 2 meetings (i) purpose. the purpose of an end-of-phase 2 meeting is to determine the safety of proceeding to phase 3, to evaluate the phase 3 plan and protocols and the adequacy of current studies and plans to assess pediatric safety and effectiveness, and to identify any additional information necessary to support a marketing application for the uses under investigation. 
(ii) eligibility for meeting. while the end-of-phase 2 meeting is designed primarily for ind's involving new molecular entities or major new uses of marketed drugs, a sponsor of any ind may request and obtain an end-of-phase 2 meeting. 
(iii) timing. to be most useful to the sponsor, end-of-phase 2 meetings should be held before major commitments of effort and resources to specific phase 3 tests are made. the scheduling of an end-of-phase 2 meeting is not, however, intended to delay the transition of an investigation from phase 2 to phase 3. 
(iv) advance information. at least 1 month in advance of an end-of-phase 2 meeting, the sponsor should submit background information on the sponsor's plan for phase 3, including summaries of the phase 1 and 2 investigations, the specific protocols for phase 3 clinical studies, plans for any additional nonclinical studies, plans for pediatric studies, including a time line for protocol finalization, enrollment, completion, and data analysis, or information to support any planned request for waiver or deferral of pediatric studies, and, if available, tentative labeling for the drug. the recommended contents of such a submission are described more fully in fda staff manual guide 4850.7 that is publicly available under fda's public information regulations in part 20. 
(v) conduct of meeting. arrangements for an end-of-phase 2 meeting are to be made with the division in fda's center for drug evaluation and research or the center for biologics evaluation and research which is responsible for review of the ind. the meeting will be scheduled by fda at a time convenient to both fda and the sponsor. both the sponsor and fda may bring consultants to the meeting. the meeting should be directed primarily at establishing agreement between fda and the sponsor of the overall plan for phase 3 and the objectives and design of particular studies. the adequacy of the technical information to support phase 3 studies and/or a marketing application may also be discussed. fda will also provide its best judgment, at that time, of the pediatric studies that will be required for the drug product and whether their submission will be deferred until after approval. agreements reached at the meeting on these matters will be recorded in minutes of the conference that will be taken by fda in accordance with  10.65 and provided to the sponsor. the minutes along with any other written material provided to the sponsor will serve as a permanent record of any agreements reached. barring a significant scientific development that requires otherwise, studies conducted in accordance with the agreement shall be presumed to be sufficient in objective and design for the purpose of obtaining marketing approval for the drug. 
(2) pre-nda and pre-bla meetings. fda has found that delays associated with the initial review of a marketing application may be reduced by exchanges of information about a proposed marketing application. the primary purpose of this kind of exchange is to uncover any major unresolved problems, to identify those studies that the sponsor is relying on as adequate and well-controlled to establish the drug's effectiveness, to identify the status of ongoing or needed studies adequate to assess pediatric safety and effectiveness, to acquaint fda reviewers with the general information to be submitted in the marketing application (including technical information), to discuss appropriate methods for statistical analysis of the data, and to discuss the best approach to the presentation and formatting of data in the marketing application. arrangements for such a meeting are to be initiated by the sponsor with the division responsible for review of the ind. to permit fda to provide the sponsor with the most useful advice on preparing a marketing application, the sponsor should submit to fda's reviewing division at least 1 month in advance of the meeting the following information: 
(i) a brief summary of the clinical studies to be submitted in the application. 
(ii) a proposed format for organizing the submission, including methods for presenting the data. 
(iii) information on the status of needed or ongoing pediatric studies. 
(iv) any other information for discussion at the meeting. 

