" 312.110 
import and export requirements. 
(a) imports. an investigational new drug offered for import into the united states complies with the requirements of this part if it is subject to an ind that is in effect for it under  312.40 and: (1) the consignee in the united states is the sponsor of the ind; (2) the consignee is a qualified investigator named in the ind; or (3) the consignee is the domestic agent of a foreign sponsor, is responsible for the control and distribution of the investigational drug, and the ind identifies the consignee and describes what, if any, actions the consignee will take with respect to the investigational drug. 
(b) exports. an investigational new drug may be exported from the united states for use in a clinical investigation under any of the following conditions: 
(1) an ind is in effect for the drug under  312.40, the drug complies with the laws of the country to which it is being exported, and each person who receives the drug is an investigator in a study submitted to and allowed to proceed under the ind; or 
(2) the drug has valid marketing authorization in australia, canada, israel, japan, new zealand, switzerland, south africa, or in any country in the european union or the european economic area, and complies with the laws of the country to which it is being exported, section 802(b)(1)(a), (f), and (g) of the act, and  1.101 of this chapter; or 
(3) the drug is being exported to australia, canada, israel, japan, new zealand, switzerland, south africa, or to any country in the european union or the european economic area, and complies with the laws of the country to which it is being exported, the applicable provisions of section 802(c), (f), and (g) of the act, and  1.101 of this chapter. drugs exported under this paragraph that are not the subject of an ind are exempt from the label requirement in  312.6(a); or 
(4) except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the person exporting the drug sends a written certification to the office of international programs (hfg-1), food and drug administration, 5600 fishers lane, rockville, md 20857, at the time the drug is first exported and maintains records documenting compliance with this paragraph. the certification shall describe the drug that is to be exported ( i.e. , trade name (if any), generic name, and dosage form), identify the country or countries to which the drug is to be exported, and affirm that: 
(i) the drug is intended for export; 
(ii) the drug is intended for investigational use in a foreign country; 
(iii) the drug meets the foreign purchaser's or consignee's specifications; 
(iv) the drug is not in conflict with the importing country's laws; 
(v) the outer shipping package is labeled to show that the package is intended for export from the united states; 
(vi) the drug is not sold or offered for sale in the united states; 
(vii) the clinical investigation will be conducted in accordance with  312.120; 
(viii) the drug is manufactured, processed, packaged, and held in substantial conformity with current good manufacturing practices; 
(ix) the drug is not adulterated within the meaning of section 501(a)(1), (a)(2)(a), (a)(3), (c), or (d) of the act; 
(x) the drug does not present an imminent hazard to public health, either in the united states, if the drug were to be reimported, or in the foreign country; and 
(xi) the drug is labeled in accordance with the foreign country's laws. 
(5) in the event of a national emergency in a foreign country, where the national emergency necessitates exportation of an investigational new drug, the requirements in paragraph (b)(4) of this section apply as follows: 
(i) situations where the investigational new drug is to be stockpiled in anticipation of a national emergency. there may be instances where exportation of an investigational new drug is needed so that the drug may be stockpiled and made available for use by the importing country if and when a national emergency arises. in such cases: 
(a) a person may export an investigational new drug under paragraph (b)(4) of this section without making an affirmation with respect to any one or more of paragraphs (b)(4)(i), (b)(4)(iv), (b)(4)(vi), (b)(4)(vii), (b)(4)(viii), and/or (b)(4)(ix) of this section, provided that he or she: 
) provides a written statement explaining why compliance with each such paragraph is not feasible or is contrary to the best interests of the individuals who may receive the investigational new drug; 
) provides a written statement from an authorized official of the importing country's government. the statement must attest that the official agrees with the exporter's statement made under paragraph (b)(5)(i)(a)( ) of this section; explain that the drug is to be stockpiled solely for use of the importing country in a national emergency; and describe the potential national emergency that warrants exportation of the investigational new drug under this provision; and 
) provides a written statement showing that the secretary of health and human services (the secretary), or his or her designee, agrees with the findings of the authorized official of the importing country's government. persons who wish to obtain a written statement from the secretary should direct their requests to secretary's operations center, office of emergency operations and security programs, office of public health emergency preparedness, office of the secretary, department of health and human services, 200 independence ave. sw., washington, dc 20201. requests may be also be sent by fax: 202-619-7870 or by e-mail: hhs.soc@hhs.gov. 
(b) exportation may not proceed until fda has authorized exportation of the investigational new drug. fda may deny authorization if the statements provided under paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(a)( ) or (b)(5)(i)(a)( ) of this section are inadequate or if exportation is contrary to public health. 
(ii) situations where the investigational new drug is to be used for a sudden and immediate national emergency. there may be instances where exportation of an investigational new drug is needed so that the drug may be used in a sudden and immediate national emergency that has developed or is developing. in such cases: 
(a) a person may export an investigational new drug under paragraph (b)(4) of this section without making an affirmation with respect to any one or more of paragraphs (b)(4)(i), (b)(4)(iv), (b)(4)(v), (b)(4)(vi), (b)(4)(vii), (b)(4)(viii), (b)(4)(ix), and/or (b)(4)(xi), provided that he or she: 
) provides a written statement explaining why compliance with each such paragraph is not feasible or is contrary to the best interests of the individuals who are expected to receive the investigational new drug and 
) provides sufficient information from an authorized official of the importing country's government to enable the secretary, or his or her designee, to decide whether a national emergency has developed or is developing in the importing country, whether the investigational new drug will be used solely for that national emergency, and whether prompt exportation of the investigational new drug is necessary. persons who wish to obtain a determination from the secretary should direct their requests to secretary's operations center, office of emergency operations and security programs, office of public health emergency preparedness, office of the secretary, department of health and human services, 200 independence ave. sw., washington, dc 20201. requests may be also be sent by fax: 202-619-7870 or by e-mail: hhs.soc@hhs.gov. 
(b) exportation may proceed without prior fda authorization. 
(c) limitations. exportation under paragraph (b) of this section may not occur if: 
(1) for drugs exported under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the ind pertaining to the clinical investigation is no longer in effect; 
(2) for drugs exported under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the requirements in section 802(b)(1), (f), or (g) of the act are no longer met; 
(3) for drugs exported under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the requirements in section 802(c), (f), or (g) of the act are no longer met; 
(4) for drugs exported under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the conditions underlying the certification or the statements submitted under paragraph (b)(5) of this section are no longer met; or 
(5) for any investigational new drugs under this section, the drug no longer complies with the laws of the importing country. 
(d) insulin and antibiotics. new insulin and antibiotic drug products may be exported for investigational use in accordance with section 801(e)(1) of the act without complying with this section. 

