" 312.82 
early consultation. 
for products intended to treat life-threatening or severely-debilitating illnesses, sponsors may request to meet with fda-reviewing officials early in the drug development process to review and reach agreement on the design of necessary preclinical and clinical studies. where appropriate, fda will invite to such meetings one or more outside expert scientific consultants or advisory committee members. to the extent fda resources permit, agency reviewing officials will honor requests for such meetings 
(a) pre-investigational new drug (ind) meetings. prior to the submission of the initial ind, the sponsor may request a meeting with fda-reviewing officials. the primary purpose of this meeting is to review and reach agreement on the design of animal studies needed to initiate human testing. the meeting may also provide an opportunity for discussing the scope and design of phase 1 testing, plans for studying the drug product in pediatric populations, and the best approach for presentation and formatting of data in the ind. 
(b) end-of-phase 1 meetings. when data from phase 1 clinical testing are available, the sponsor may again request a meeting with fda-reviewing officials. the primary purpose of this meeting is to review and reach agreement on the design of phase 2 controlled clinical trials, with the goal that such testing will be adequate to provide sufficient data on the drug's safety and effectiveness to support a decision on its approvability for marketing, and to discuss the need for, as well as the design and timing of, studies of the drug in pediatric patients. for drugs for life-threatening diseases, fda will provide its best judgment, at that time, whether pediatric studies will be required and whether their submission will be deferred until after approval. the procedures outlined in  312.47(b)(1) with respect to end-of-phase 2 conferences, including documentation of agreements reached, would also be used for end-of-phase 1 meetings. 

