" 312.22 
general principles of the ind submission. 
(a) fda's primary objectives in reviewing an ind are, in all phases of the investigation, to assure the safety and rights of subjects, and, in phase 2 and 3, to help assure that the quality of the scientific evaluation of drugs is adequate to permit an evaluation of the drug's effectiveness and safety. therefore, although fda's review of phase 1 submissions will focus on assessing the safety of phase 1 investigations, fda's review of phases 2 and 3 submissions will also include an assessment of the scientific quality of the clinical investigations and the likelihood that the investigations will yield data capable of meeting statutory standards for marketing approval. 
(b) the amount of information on a particular drug that must be submitted in an ind to assure the accomplishment of the objectives described in paragraph (a) of this section depends upon such factors as the novelty of the drug, the extent to which it has been studied previously, the known or suspected risks, and the developmental phase of the drug. 
(c) the central focus of the initial ind submission should be on the general investigational plan and the protocols for specific human studies. subsequent amendments to the ind that contain new or revised protocols should build logically on previous submissions and should be supported by additional information, including the results of animal toxicology studies or other human studies as appropriate. annual reports to the ind should serve as the focus for reporting the status of studies being conducted under the ind and should update the general investigational plan for the coming year. 
(d) the ind format set forth in  312.23 should be followed routinely by sponsors in the interest of fostering an efficient review of applications. sponsors are expected to exercise considerable discretion, however, regarding the content of information submitted in each section, depending upon the kind of drug being studied and the nature of the available information. section 312.23 outlines the information needed for a commercially sponsored ind for a new molecular entity. a sponsor-investigator who uses, as a research tool, an investigational new drug that is already subject to a manufacturer's ind or marketing application should follow the same general format, but ordinarily may, if authorized by the manufacturer, refer to the manufacturer's ind or marketing application in providing the technical information supporting the proposed clinical investigation. a sponsor-investigator who uses an investigational drug not subject to a manufacturer's ind or marketing application is ordinarily required to submit all technical information supporting the ind, unless such information may be referenced from the scientific literature.", 
