" 314.108 
new drug product exclusivity. 
(a) definitions. the following definitions of terms apply to this section: 
active moiety means the molecule or ion, excluding those appended portions of the molecule that cause the drug to be an ester, salt (including a salt with hydrogen or coordination bonds), or other noncovalent derivative (such as a complex, chelate, or clathrate) of the molecule, responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance. 
approved under section 505(b) means an application submitted under section 505(b) and approved on or after october 10, 1962, or an application that was deemed approved under section 107(c)(2) of pub. l. 87-781. 
clinical investigation means any experiment other than a bioavailability study in which a drug is administered or dispensed to, or used on, human subjects. 
conducted or sponsored by the applicant with regard to an investigation means that before or during the investigation, the applicant was named in form fda-1571 filed with fda as the sponsor of the investigational new drug application under which the investigation was conducted, or the applicant or the applicant's predecessor in interest, provided substantial support for the investigation. to demonstrate substantial support, an applicant must either provide a certified statement from a certified public accountant that the applicant provided 50 percent or more of the cost of conducting the study or provide an explanation why fda should consider the applicant to have conducted or sponsored the study if the applicant's financial contribution to the study is less than 50 percent or the applicant did not sponsor the investigational new drug. a predecessor in interest is an entity, e.g., a corporation, that the applicant has taken over, merged with, or purchased, or from which the applicant has purchased all rights to the drug. purchase of nonexclusive rights to a clinical investigation after it is completed is not sufficient to satisfy this definition. 
date of approval means the date on the letter from fda stating that the new drug application is approved, whether or not final printed labeling or other materials must yet be submitted as long as approval of such labeling or materials is not expressly required. date of approval refers only to a final approval and not to a tentative approval that may become effective at a later date. 
essential to approval means, with regard to an investigation, that there are no other data available that could support approval of the application. 
fda means the food and drug administration. 
new chemical entity means a drug that contains no active moiety that has been approved by fda in any other application submitted under section 505(b) of the act. 
new clinical investigation means an investigation in humans the results of which have not been relied on by fda to demonstrate substantial evidence of effectiveness of a previously approved drug product for any indication or of safety for a new patient population and do not duplicate the results of another investigation that was relied on by the agency to demonstrate the effectiveness or safety in a new patient population of a previously approved drug product. for purposes of this section, data from a clinical investigation previously submitted for use in the comprehensive evaluation of the safety of a drug product but not to support the effectiveness of the drug product would be considered new. 
(b) submission of and effective date of approval of an abbreviated new drug application submitted under section 505(j) of the act or a 505(b)(2) application. (1) [reserved] 
(2) if a drug product that contains a new chemical entity was approved after september 24, 1984, in an application submitted under section 505(b) of the act, no person may submit a 505(b)(2) application or abbreviated new drug application under section 505(j) of the act for a drug product that contains the same active moiety as in the new chemical entity for a period of 5 years from the date of approval of the first approved new drug application, except that the 505(b)(2) application or abbreviated application may be submitted after 4 years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or noninfringement described in  314.50(i)(1)(i)(a)( ) or  314.94(a)(12)(i)(a)( ). 
(3) the approval of a 505(b)(2) application or abbreviated application described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section will become effective as provided in  314.107(b)(1) or (b)(2), unless the owner of a patent that claims the drug, the patent owner's representative, or exclusive licensee brings suit for patent infringement against the applicant during the 1-year period beginning 48 months after the date of approval of the new drug application for the new chemical entity and within 45 days after receipt of the notice described at  314.52 or  314.95, in which case, approval of the 505(b)(2) application or abbreviated application will be made effective as provided in  314.107(b)(3). 
(4) if an application: 
(i) was submitted under section 505(b) of the act; 
(ii) was approved after september 24, 1984; 
(iii) was for a drug product that contains an active moiety that has been previously approved in another application under section 505(b) of the act; and 
(iv) contained reports of new clinical investigations (other than bioavailability studies) conducted or sponsored by the applicant that were essential to approval of the application, the agency will not make effective for a period of 3 years after the date of approval of the application the approval of a 505(b)(2) application or an abbreviated new drug application for the conditions of approval of the original application, or an abbreviated new drug application submitted pursuant to an approved petition under section 505(j)(2)(c) of the act that relies on the information supporting the conditions of approval of an original new drug application. 
(5) if a supplemental application: 
(i) was approved after september 24, 1984; and 
(ii) contained reports of new clinical investigations (other than bioavailability studies) that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant that were essential to approval of the supplemental application, the agency will not make effective for a period of 3 years after the date of approval of the supplemental application the approval of a 505(b)(2) application or an abbreviated new drug application for a change, or an abbreviated new drug application submitted pursuant to an approved petition under section 505(j)(2)(c) of the act that relies on the information supporting a change approved in the supplemental new drug application. 

