" 314.95 
notice of certification of invalidity or noninfringement of a patent. 
(a) notice of certification. for each patent that claims the listed drug or that claims a use for such listed drug for which the applicant is seeking approval and that the applicant certifies under  314.94(a)(12) is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed, the applicant shall send notice of such certification by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested to each of the following persons: 
(1) each owner of the patent which is the subject of the certification or the representative designated by the owner to receive the notice. the name and address of the patent owner or its representative may be obtained from the united states patent and trademark office; and 
(2) the holder of the approved application under section 505(b) of the act for the listed drug that is claimed by the patent and for which the applicant is seeking approval, or, if the application holder does not reside or maintain a place of business within the united states, the application holder's attorney, agent, or other authorized official. the name and address of the application holder or its attorney, agent, or authorized official may be obtained from the orange book staff, office of generic drugs, 7500 standish pl., rockville, md 20855. 
(3) this paragraph does not apply to a use patent that claims no uses for which the applicant is seeking approval. 
(b) sending the notice. the applicant shall send the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section when it receives from fda an acknowledgment letter stating that its abbreviated new drug application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. at the same time, the applicant shall amend its abbreviated new drug application to include a statement certifying that the notice has been provided to each person identified under paragraph (a) of this section and that the notice met the content requirements under paragraph (c) of this section. 
(c) contents of a notice. in the notice, the applicant shall cite section 505(j)(2)(b)(ii) of the act and shall include, but not be limited to, the following information: 
(1) a statement that fda has received an abbreviated new drug application submitted by the applicant containing any required bioavailability or bioequivalence data or information. 
(2) the abbreviated application number. 
(3) the established name, if any, as defined in section 502(e)(3) of the act, of the proposed drug product. 
(4) the active ingredient, strength, and dosage form of the proposed drug product. 
(5) the patent number and expiration date, as submitted to the agency or as known to the applicant, of each patent alleged to be invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. 
(6) a detailed statement of the factual and legal basis of the applicant's opinion that the patent is not valid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed. the applicant shall include in the detailed statement: 
(i) for each claim of a patent alleged not to be infringed, a full and detailed explanation of why the claim is not infringed. 
(ii) for each claim of a patent alleged to be invalid or unenforceable, a full and detailed explanation of the grounds supporting the allegation. 
(7) if the applicant does not reside or have a place of business in the united states, the name and address of an agent in the united states authorized to accept service of process for the applicant. 
(d) amendment to an abbreviated application. if an abbreviated application is amended to include the certification described in  314.94(a)(12)(i)(a)( ), the applicant shall send the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section at the same time that the amendment to the abbreviated application is submitted to fda. 
(e) documentation of receipt of notice. the applicant shall amend its abbreviated application to document receipt of the notice required under paragraph (a) of this section by each person provided the notice. the applicant shall include a copy of the return receipt or other similar evidence of the date the notification was received. fda will accept as adequate documentation of the date of receipt a return receipt or a letter acknowledging receipt by the person provided the notice. an applicant may rely on another form of documentation only if fda has agreed to such documentation in advance. a copy of the notice itself need not be submitted to the agency. 
(f) approval. if the requirements of this section are met, fda will presume the notice to be complete and sufficient, and it will count the day following the date of receipt of the notice by the patent owner or its representative and by the approved application holder as the first day of the 45-day period provided for in section 505(j)(4)(b)(iii) of the act. fda may, if the applicant provides a written statement to fda that a later date should be used, count from such later date. 

