" 314.54 
procedure for submission of an application requiring investigations for approval of a new indication for, or other change from, a listed drug. 
(a) the act does not permit approval of an abbreviated new drug application for a new indication, nor does it permit approval of other changes in a listed drug if investigations, other than bioavailability or bioequivalence studies, are essential to the approval of the change. any person seeking approval of a drug product that represents a modification of a listed drug (e.g., a new indication or new dosage form) and for which investigations, other than bioavailability or bioequivalence studies, are essential to the approval of the changes may, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, submit a 505(b)(2) application. this application need contain only that information needed to support the modification(s) of the listed drug. 
(1) the applicant shall submit a complete archival copy of the application that contains the following: 
(i) the information required under  314.50(a), (b), (c), (d)(1), (d)(3), (e), and (g), except that  314.50(d)(1)(ii)( ) shall contain the proposed or actual master production record, including a description of the equipment, to be used for the manufacture of a commercial lot of the drug product. 
(ii) the information required under  314.50 (d)(2), (d)(4) (if an anti-infective drug), (d)(5), (d)(6), and (f) as needed to support the safety and effectiveness of the drug product. 
(iii) identification of the listed drug for which fda has made a finding of safety and effectiveness and on which finding the applicant relies in seeking approval of its proposed drug product by established name, if any, proprietary name, dosage form, strength, route of administration, name of listed drug's application holder, and listed drug's approved application number. 
(iv) if the applicant is seeking approval only for a new indication and not for the indications approved for the listed drug on which the applicant relies, a certification so stating. 
(v) any patent information required under section 505(b)(1) of the act with respect to any patent which claims the drug for which approval is sought or a method of using such drug and to which a claim of patent infringement could reasonably be asserted if a person not licensed by the owner of the patent engaged in the manufacture, use, or sale of the drug product. 
(vi) any patent certification or statement required under section 505(b)(2) of the act with respect to any relevant patents that claim the listed drug or that claim any other drugs on which investigations relied on by the applicant for approval of the application were conducted, or that claim a use for the listed or other drug. 
(vii) if the applicant believes the change for which it is seeking approval is entitled to a period of exclusivity, the information required under  314.50(j). 
(2) the applicant shall submit a review copy that contains the technical sections described in  314.50(d)(1), except that  314.50(d)(1)(ii)( ) shall contain the proposed or actual master production record, including a description of the equipment, to be used for the manufacture of a commercial lot of the drug product, and paragraph (d)(3), and the technical sections described in paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(4), (d)(5), (d)(6), and (f) when needed to support the modification. each of the technical sections in the review copy is required to be separately bound with a copy of the information required under  314.50 (a), (b), and (c) and a copy of the proposed labeling. 
(3) the information required by  314.50 (d)(2), (d)(4) (if an anti-infective drug), (d)(5), (d)(6), and (f) for the listed drug on which the applicant relies shall be satisfied by reference to the listed drug under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. 
(4) the applicant shall submit a field copy of the application that contains the technical section described in  314.50(d)(1), a copy of the information required under  314.50(a) and (c), and certification that the field copy is a true copy of the technical section described in  314.50(d)(1) contained in the archival and review copies of the application. 
(b) an application may not be submitted under this section for a drug product whose only difference from the reference listed drug is that: 
(1) the extent to which its active ingredient(s) is absorbed or otherwise made available to the site of action is less than that of the reference listed drug; or 
(2) the rate at which its active ingredient(s) is absorbed or otherwise made available to the site of action is unintentionally less than that of the reference listed drug. 

