" 314.107 
effective date of approval of a 505(b)(2) application or abbreviated new drug application under section 505(j) of the act. 
(a) general. a drug product may be introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce when approval of the application or abbreviated application for the drug product becomes effective. except as provided in this section, approval of an application or abbreviated application for a drug product becomes effective on the date fda issues an approval letter under  314.105 for the application or abbreviated application. 
(b) effect of patent on the listed drug. if approval of an abbreviated new drug application submitted under section 505(j) of the act or of a 505(b)(2) application is granted, that approval will become effective in accordance with the following: 
(1) date of approval letter. except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3), (b)(4), and (c) of this section, approval will become effective on the date fda issues an approval letter under  314.105 if the applicant certifies under  314.50(i) or  314.94(a)(12) that: 
(i) there are no relevant patents; or 
(ii) the applicant is aware of a relevant patent but the patent information required under section 505 (b) or (c) of the act has not been submitted to fda; or 
(iii) the relevant patent has expired; or 
(iv) the relevant patent is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed. 
(2) patent expiration. if the applicant certifies under  314.50(i) or  314.94(a)(12) that the relevant patent will expire on a specified date, approval will become effective on the specified date. 
(3) disposition of patent litigation. (i)(a) except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii), (b)(3)(iii), and (b)(3)(iv) of this section, if the applicant certifies under  314.50(i) or  314.94(a)(12) that the relevant patent is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed, and the patent owner or its representative or the exclusive patent licensee brings suit for patent infringement within 45 days of receipt by the patent owner of the notice of certification from the applicant under  314.52 or  314.95, approval may be made effective 30 months after the date of the receipt of the notice of certification by the patent owner or by the exclusive licensee (or their representatives) unless the court has extended or reduced the period because of a failure of either the plaintiff or defendant to cooperate reasonably in expediting the action; or 
(b) if the patented drug product qualifies for 5 years of exclusive marketing under  314.108(b)(2) and the patent owner or its representative or the exclusive patent licensee brings suit for patent infringement during the 1-year period beginning 4 years after the date the patented drug was approved and within 45 days of receipt by the patent owner of the notice of certification, the approval may be made effective at the expiration of the 7 1/2 years from the date of approval of the application for the patented drug product. 
(ii) if before the expiration of the 30-month period, or 7 1/2 years where applicable, the court issues a final order that the patent is invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed, approval may be made effective on the date the court enters judgment; 
(iii) if before the expiration of the 30-month period, or 7 1/2 years where applicable, the court issues a final order or judgment that the patent has been infringed, approval may be made effective on the date the court determines that the patent will expire or otherwise orders; or 
(iv) if before the expiration of the 30-month period, or 7 1/2 years where applicable, the court grants a preliminary injunction prohibiting the applicant from engaging in the commercial manufacture or sale of the drug product until the court decides the issues of patent validity and infringement, and if the court later decides that the patent is invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed, approval may be made effective on the date the court enters a final order or judgment that the patent is invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. 
(v) fda will issue a tentative approval letter when tentative approval is appropriate in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. in order for an approval to be made effective under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the applicant must receive an approval letter from the agency indicating that the application has received final approval. tentative approval of an application does not constitute approval of an application and cannot, absent a final approval letter from the agency, result in an effective approval under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 
(4) multiple certifications. if the applicant has submitted certifications under  314.50(i) or  314.94(a)(12) for more than one patent, the date of approval will be calculated for each certification, and the approval will become effective on the last applicable date. 
(c) subsequent abbreviated new drug application submission. (1) if an abbreviated new drug application contains a certification that a relevant patent is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed and the application is for a generic copy of the same listed drug for which one or more substantially complete abbreviated new drug applications were previously submitted containing a certification that the same patent was invalid, unenforceable, or would not be infringed, approval of the subsequent abbreviated new drug application will be made effective no sooner than 180 days from whichever of the following dates is earlier: 
(i) the date the applicant submitting the first application first commences commercial marketing of its drug product; or 
(ii) the date of a decision of the court holding the relevant patent invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. 
(2) for purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the applicant submitting the first application is the applicant that submits an application that is both substantially complete and contains a certification that the patent was invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed prior to the submission of any other application for the same listed drug that is both substantially complete and contains the same certification. a substantially complete application must contain the results of any required bioequivalence studies, or, if applicable, a request for a waiver of such studies. 
(3) for purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if fda concludes that the applicant submitting the first application is not actively pursuing approval of its abbreviated application, fda will make the approval of subsequent abbreviated applications immediately effective if they are otherwise eligible for an immediately effective approval. 
(4) for purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the applicant submitting the first application shall notify fda of the date that it commences commercial marketing of its drug product. commercial marketing commences with the first date of introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce outside the control of the manufacturer of a drug product, except for investigational use under part 312 of this chapter, but does not include transfer of the drug product for reasons other than sale within the control of the manufacturer or application holder. if an applicant does not promptly notify fda of such date, the effective date of approval shall be deemed to be the date of the commencement of first commercial marketing. 
(d) delay due to exclusivity. the agency will also delay the effective date of the approval of an abbreviated new drug application under section 505(j) of the act or a 505(b)(2) application if delay is required by the exclusivity provisions in  314.108. when the effective date of an application is delayed under both this section and  314.108, the effective date will be the later of the 2 days specified under this section and  314.108. 
(e) notification of court actions. the applicant shall submit a copy of the entry of the order or judgment to the office of generic drugs (hfd-600), or to the appropriate division in the office of new drugs within 10 working days of a final judgment. 
(f) computation of 45-day time clock. (1) the 45-day clock described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section begins on the day after the date of receipt of the applicant's notice of certification by the patent owner or its representative, and by the approved application holder. when the 45th day falls on saturday, sunday, or a federal holiday, the 45th day will be the next day that is not a saturday, sunday, or a federal holiday. 
(2) the abbreviated new drug applicant or the 505(b)(2) applicant shall notify fda immediately of the filing of any legal action filed within 45 days of receipt of the notice of certification. if the applicant submitting the abbreviated new drug application or the 505(b)(2) application or patent owner or its representative does not notify fda in writing before the expiration of the 45-day time period or the completion of the agency's review of the application, whichever occurs later, that a legal action for patent infringement was filed within 45 days of receipt of the notice of certification, approval of the abbreviated new drug application or the 505(b)(2) application will be made effective immediately upon expiration of the 45 days or upon completion of the agency's review and approval of the application, whichever is later. the notification to fda of the legal action shall include: 
(i) the abbreviated new drug application or 505(b)(2) application number. 
(ii) the name of the abbreviated new drug or 505(b)(2) application applicant. 
(iii) the established name of the drug product or, if no established name exists, the name(s) of the active ingredient(s), the drug product's strength, and dosage form. 
(iv) a certification that an action for patent infringement identified by number, has been filed in an appropriate court on a specified date. 
the applicant of an abbreviated new drug application shall send the notification to fda's office of generic drugs (hfd-600). a 505(b)(2) applicant shall send the notification to the appropriate division in the office of new drugs reviewing the application. a patent owner or its representative may also notify fda of the filing of any legal action for patent infringement. the notice should contain the information and be sent to the offices or divisions described in this paragraph. 
(3) if the patent owner or approved application holder who is an exclusive patent licensee waives its opportunity to file a legal action for patent infringement within 45 days of a receipt of the notice of certification and the patent owner or approved application holder who is an exclusive patent licensee submits to fda a valid waiver before the 45 days elapse, approval of the abbreviated new drug application or the 505(b)(2) application will be made effective upon completion of the agency's review and approval of the application. fda will only accept a waiver in the following form: 
name of patent owner or exclusive patent licensee ) has received notice from ( name of applicant ) under ( section 505(b)(3) or 505(j)(2)(b) of the act ) and does not intend to file an action for patent infringement against ( name of applicant ) concerning the drug ( name of drug ) before ( date on which 45 days elapses. name of patent owner or exclusive patent licensee ) waives the opportunity provided by ( section 505(c)(3)(c) or 505(j)(b)(iii) of the act ) and does not object to fda's approval of ( name of applicant )'s ( 505(b)(2) or abbreviated new drug application ) for ( name of drug ) with an immediate effective date on or after the date of this letter. 

