" 314.80 
postmarketing reporting of adverse drug experiences. 
(a) * * * 
individual case safety report (icsr). a description of an adverse drug experience related to an individual patient or subject. 
icsr attachments. documents related to the adverse drug experience described in an icsr, such as medical records, hospital discharge summaries, or other documentation. 
(c) reporting requirements. the applicant must submit to fda adverse drug experience information as described in this section. except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, these reports must be submitted to the agency in electronic format as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. 
(1) * * * 
(iii) submission of reports. the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section, concerning the submission of postmarketing 15-day alert reports, also apply to any person other than the applicant whose name appears on the label of an approved drug product as a manufacturer, packer, or distributor (nonapplicant). * * * if a nonapplicant elects to submit adverse drug experience reports to the applicant rather than to fda, the nonapplicant must submit, by any appropriate means, each report to the applicant within 5 calendar days of initial receipt of the information by the nonapplicant, and the applicant must then comply with the requirements of this section. * * * 
(2) * * * 
(ii) each periodic report is required to contain: 
(a) descriptive information. ) a narrative summary and analysis of the information in the report; 
) an analysis of the 15-day alert reports submitted during the reporting interval (all 15-day alert reports being appropriately referenced by the applicant's patient identification code, adverse reaction term(s), and date of submission to fda); 
) a history of actions taken since the last report because of adverse drug experiences (for example, labeling changes or studies initiated); and 
) an index consisting of a line listing of the applicant's patient identification code, and adverse reaction term(s) for all icsrs submitted under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(b) of this section. 
(b) icsrs for serious, expected, and nonserious adverse drug experiences. an icsr for each adverse drug experience not reported under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section (all serious, expected and nonserious adverse drug experiences). all such icsrs must be submitted to fda (either individually or in one or more batches) within the timeframe specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. icsrs must only be submitted to fda once. 
(d) scientific literature. a 15-day alert report based on information in the scientific literature must be accompanied by a copy of the published article. * * * 
(f) information reported on icsrs. icsrs include the following information: 
(1) patient information. 
(i) patient identification code; 
(ii) patient age at the time of adverse drug experience, or date of birth; 
(iii) patient gender; and 
(iv) patient weight. 
(2) adverse drug experience. 
(i) outcome attributed to adverse drug experience; 
(ii) date of adverse drug experience; 
(iii) date of icsr submission; 
(iv) description of adverse drug experience (including a concise medical narrative); 
(v) adverse drug experience term(s); 
(vi) description of relevant tests, including dates and laboratory data; and 
(vii) other relevant patient history, including preexisting medical conditions. 
(3) suspect medical product(s). 
(i) name; 
(ii) dose, frequency, and route of administration used; 
(iii) therapy dates; 
(iv) diagnosis for use (indication); 
(v) whether the product is a prescription or nonprescription product; 
(vi) whether the product is a combination product as defined in  3.2(e) of this chapter; 
(vii) whether adverse drug experience abated after drug use stopped or dose reduced; 
(viii) whether adverse drug experience reappeared after reintroduction of drug; 
(ix) lot number; 
(x) expiration date; 
(xi) national drug code (ndc) number; and 
(xii) concomitant medical products and therapy dates. 
(4) initial reporter information. 
(i) name, address, and telephone number; 
(ii) whether the initial reporter is a health care professional; and 
(iii) occupation, if a health care professional. 
(5) applicant information. 
(i) applicant name and contact office address; 
(ii) telephone number; 
(iii) report source, such as spontaneous, literature, or study; 
(iv) date the report was received by applicant; 
(v) application number and type; 
(vi) whether the icsr is a 15-day alert report; 
(vii) whether the icsr is an initial report or followup report; and 
(viii) unique case identification number, which must be the same in the initial report and any subsequent followup report(s). 
(g) electronic format for submissions. (1) safety report submissions, including icsrs, icsr attachments, and the descriptive information in periodic reports, must be in an electronic format that fda can process, review, and archive. fda will issue guidance on how to provide the electronic submission (e.g., method of transmission, media, file formats, preparation and organization of files). 
(2) an applicant or nonapplicant may request, in writing, a temporary waiver of the requirements in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. these waivers will be granted on a limited basis for good cause shown. fda will issue guidance on requesting a waiver of the requirements in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. 
(i) patient privacy. an applicant should not include in reports under this section the names and addresses of individual patients; instead, the applicant should assign a unique code for identification of the patient. the applicant should include the name of the reporter from whom the information was received as part of the initial reporter information, even when the reporter is the patient. the names of patients, health care professionals, hospitals, and geographical identifiers in adverse drug experience reports are not releasable to the public under fda's public information regulations in part 20 of this chapter.", 
