" 314.105 
approval of an application and an abbreviated application. 
(a) the food and drug administration will approve an application and send the applicant an approval letter if none of the reasons in  314.125 for refusing to approve the application applies. an approval becomes effective on the date of the issuance of the approval letter, except with regard to an approval under section 505(b)(2) of the act with a delayed effective date. an approval with a delayed effective date is tentative and does not become final until the effective date. a new drug product or antibiotic approved under this paragraph may not be marketed until an approval is effective. 
(b) fda will approve an application and issue the applicant an approval letter on the basis of draft labeling if the only deficiencies in the application concern editorial or similar minor deficiencies in the draft labeling. such approval will be conditioned upon the applicant incorporating the specified labeling changes exactly as directed, and upon the applicant submitting to fda a copy of the final printed labeling prior to marketing. 
(c) fda will approve an application after it determines that the drug meets the statutory standards for safety and effectiveness, manufacturing and controls, and labeling, and an abbreviated application after it determines that the drug meets the statutory standards for manufacturing and controls, labeling, and, where applicable, bioequivalence. while the statutory standards apply to all drugs, the many kinds of drugs that are subject to the statutory standards and the wide range of uses for those drugs demand flexibility in applying the standards. thus fda is required to exercise its scientific judgment to determine the kind and quantity of data and information an applicant is required to provide for a particular drug to meet the statutory standards. fda makes its views on drug products and classes of drugs available through guidance documents, recommendations, and other statements of policy. 
(d) fda will approve an abbreviated new drug application and send the applicant an approval letter if none of the reasons in  314.127 for refusing to approve the abbreviated new drug application applies. the approval becomes effective on the date of the issuance of the agency's approval letter unless the approval letter provides for a delayed effective date. an approval with a delayed effective date is tentative and does not become final until the effective date. a new drug product approved under this paragraph may not be introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce until approval of the abbreviated new drug application is effective. ordinarily, the effective date of approval will be stated in the approval letter. 

