" 314.3 
definitions. 
(a) the definitions and interpretations contained in section 201 of the act apply to those terms when used in this part. 
(b) the following definitions of terms apply to this part: 
abbreviated application means the application described under  314.94, including all amendments and supplements to the application. abbreviated application applies to both an abbreviated new drug application and an abbreviated antibiotic application. 
act means the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (sections 201-901 (21 u.s.c. 301-392)). 
applicant means any person who submits an application or abbreviated application or an amendment or supplement to them under this part to obtain fda approval of a new drug or an antibiotic drug and any person who owns an approved application or abbreviated application. 
application means the application described under  314.50, including all amendements and supplements to the application. 
505(b)(2) application means an application submitted under section 505(b)(1) of the act for a drug for which the investigations described in section 505(b)(1)(a) of the act and relied upon by the applicant for approval of the application were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted. 
approval letter means a written communication to an applicant from fda approving an application or an abbreviated application. 
assess the effects of the change means to evaluate the effects of a manufacturing change on the identity, strength, quality, purity, and potency of a drug product as these factors may relate to the safety or effectiveness of the drug product. 
authorized generic drug means a listed drug, as defined in this section, that has been approved under section 505(c) of the act and is marketed, sold, or distributed directly or indirectly to retail class of trade with labeling, packaging (other than repackaging as the listed drug in blister packs, unit doses, or similar packaging for use in institutions), product code, labeler code, trade name, or trademark that differs from that of the listed drug. 
class 1 resubmission means the resubmission of an application or efficacy supplement, following receipt of a complete response letter, that contains one or more of the following: final printed labeling, draft labeling, certain safety updates, stability updates to support provisional or final dating periods, commitments to perform postmarketing studies (including proposals for such studies), assay validation data, final release testing on the last lots used to support approval, minor reanalyses of previously submitted data, and other comparatively minor information. 
class 2 resubmission means the resubmission of an application or efficacy supplement, following receipt of a complete response letter, that includes any item not specified in the definition of class 1 resubmission, including any item that would require presentation to an advisory committee. 
complete response letter means a written communication to an applicant from fda usually describing all of the deficiencies that the agency has identified in an application or abbreviated application that must be satisfactorily addressed before it can be approved. 
drug product means a finished dosage form, for example, tablet, capsule, or solution, that contains a drug substance, generally, but not necessarily, in association with one or more other ingredients. 
drug substance means an active ingredient that is intended to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease or to affect the structure or any function of the human body, but does not include intermediates use in the synthesis of such ingredient. 
efficacy supplement means a supplement to an approved application proposing to make one or more related changes from among the following changes to product labeling: 
(1) add or modify an indication or claim; 
(2) revise the dose or dose regimen; 
(3) provide for a new route of administration; 
(4) make a comparative efficacy claim naming another drug product; 
(5) significantly alter the intended patient population; 
(6) change the marketing status from prescription to over-the-counter use; 
(7) provide for, or provide evidence of effectiveness necessary for, the traditional approval of a product originally approved under subpart h of part 314; or 
(8) incorporate other information based on at least one adequate and well-controlled clinical study. 
fda means the food and drug administration. 
listed drug means a new drug product that has an effective approval under section 505(c) of the act for safety and effectiveness or under section 505(j) of the act, which has not been withdrawn or suspended under section 505(e)(1) through (e)(5) or (j)(5) of the act, and which has not been withdrawn from sale for what fda has determined are reasons of safety or effectiveness. listed drug status is evidenced by the drug product's identification as a drug with an effective approval in the current edition of fda's approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations (the list) or any current supplement thereto, as a drug with an effective approval. a drug product is deemed to be a listed drug on the date of effective approval of the application or abbreviated application for that drug product. 
newly acquired information means data, analyses, or other information not previously submitted to the agency, which may include (but are not limited to) data derived from new clinical studies, reports of adverse events, or new analyses of previously submitted data (e.g., meta-analyses) if the studies, events or analyses reveal risks of a different type or greater severity or frequency than previously included in submissions to fda. 
original application means a pending application for which fda has never issued a complete response letter or approval letter, or an application that was submitted again after fda had refused to file it or after it was withdrawn without being approved. 
reference listed drug means the listed drug identified by fda as the drug product upon which an applicant relies in seeking approval of its abbreviated application. 
resubmission means submission by the applicant of all materials needed to fully address all deficiencies identified in the complete response letter. an application or abbreviated application for which fda issued a complete response letter, but which was withdrawn before approval and later submitted again, is not a resubmission. 
right of reference or use means the authority to rely upon, and otherwise use, an investigation for the purpose of obtaining approval of an application, including the ability to make available the underlying raw data from the investigation for fda audit, if necessary. 
specification means the quality standard ( i.e. , tests, analytical procedures, and acceptance criteria) provided in an approved application to confirm the quality of drug substances, drug products, intermediates, raw materials, reagents, components, in-process materials, container closure systems, and other materials used in the production of a drug substance or drug product. for the purpose of this definition, acceptance criteria means numerical limits, ranges, or other criteria for the tests described. 
the list means the list of drug products with effective approvals published in the current edition of fda's publication approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations and any current supplement to the publication. 

