" 314.102 
communications between fda and applicants. 
(a) general principles. during the course of reviewing an application or an abbreviated application, fda shall communicate with applicants about scientific, medical, and procedural issues that arise during the review process. such communication may take the form of telephone conversations, letters, or meetings, whichever is most appropriate to discuss the particular issue at hand. communications shall be appropriately documented in the application in accordance with  10.65 of this chapter. further details on the procedures for communication between fda and applicants are contained in a staff manual guide that is publicly available. 
(b) notification of easily correctable deficiencies. fda reviewers shall make every reasonable effort to communicate promptly to applicants easily correctable deficiencies found in an application or an abbreviated application when those deficiencies are discovered, particularly deficiencies concerning chemistry, manufacturing, and controls issues. the agency will also inform applicants promptly of its need for more data or information or for technical changes in the application or the abbreviated application needed to facilitate the agency's review. this early communication is intended to permit applicants to correct such readily identified deficiencies relatively early in the review process and to submit an amendment before the review period has elapsed. such early communication would not ordinarily apply to major scientific issues, which require consideration of the entire pending application or abbreviated application by agency managers as well as reviewing staff. instead, major scientific issues will ordinarily be addressed in a complete response letter. 
(c) ninety-day conference. approximately 90 days after the agency receives the application, fda will provide applicants with an opportunity to meet with agency reviewing officials. the purpose of the meeting will be to inform applicants of the general progress and status of their applications, and to advise applicants of deficiencies that have been identified by that time and that have not already been communicated. this meeting will be available on applications for all new chemical entities and major new indications of marketed drugs. such meetings will be held at the applicant's option, and may be held by telephone if mutually agreed upon. such meetings would not ordinarily be held on abbreviated applications because they are not submitted for new chemical entities or new indications. 
(d) end-of-review conference. at the conclusion of fda's review of an nda as designated by the issuance of a complete response letter, fda will provide the applicant with an opportunity to meet with agency reviewing officials. the purpose of the meeting will be to discuss what further steps need to be taken by the applicant before the application can be approved. requests for such meetings must be directed to the director of the division responsible for reviewing the application. 
(e) other meetings. other meetings between fda and applicants may be held, with advance notice, to discuss scientific, medical, and other issues that arise during the review process. requests for meetings shall be directed to the director of the division responsible for reviewing the application or abbreviated application. fda will make every attempt to grant requests for meetings that involve important issues and that can be scheduled at mutually convenient times. however, drop-in visits ( i.e. , an unannounced and unscheduled visit by a company representative) are discouraged except for urgent matters, such as to discuss an important new safety issue. 

