" 314.94 
content and format of an abbreviated application. 
abbreviated applications are required to be submitted in the form and contain the information required under this section. three copies of the application are required, an archival copy, a review copy, and a field copy. fda will maintain guidance documents on the format and content of applications to assist applicants in their preparation. 
(a) abbreviated new drug applications. except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the applicant shall submit a complete archival copy of the abbreviated new drug application that includes the following: 
(1) application form. the applicant shall submit a completed and signed application form that contains the information described under  314.50(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5). the applicant shall state whether the submission is an abbreviated application under this section or a supplement to an abbreviated application under  314.97. 
(2) table of contents. the archival copy of the abbreviated new drug application is required to contain a table of contents that shows the volume number and page number of the contents of the submission. 
(3) basis for abbreviated new drug application submission. an abbreviated new drug application must refer to a listed drug. ordinarily, that listed drug will be the drug product selected by the agency as the reference standard for conducting bioequivalence testing. the application shall contain: 
(i) the name of the reference listed drug, including its dosage form and strength. for an abbreviated new drug application based on an approverd petition under  10.30 of this chapter or  314.93, the reference listed drug must be the same as the listed drug approved in the petition. 
(ii) a statement as to whether, according to the information published in the list, the reference listed drug is entitled to a period of marketing exclusivity under section 505(j)(4)(d) of the act. 
(iii) for an abbreviated new drug application based on an approved petition under  10.30 of this chapter or  314.93, a reference to fda-assigned docket number for the petition and a copy of fda's correspondence approving the petition. 
(4) conditions of use. (i) a statement that the conditions of use prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the labeling proposed for the drug product have been previously approved for the reference listed drug. 
(ii) a reference to the applicant's annotated proposed labeling and to the currently approved labeling for the reference listed drug provided under paragraph (a)(8) of this section. 
(5) active ingredients. (i) for a single-active-ingredient drug product, information to show that the active ingredient is the same as that of the reference single-active-ingredient listed drug, as follows: 
(a) a statement that the active ingredient of the proposed drug product is the same as that of the reference listed drug. 
(b) a reference to the applicant's annotated proposed labeling and to the currently approved labeling for the reference listed drug provided under paragraph (a)(8) of this section. 
(ii) for a combination drug product, information to show that the active ingredients are the same as those of the reference listed drug except for any different active ingredient that has been the subject of an approved petition, as follows: 
(a) a statement that the active ingredients of the proposed drug product are the same as those of the reference listed drug, or if one of the active ingredients differs from one of the active ingredients of the reference listed drug and the abbreviated application is submitted under the approval of a petition under  314.93 to vary such active ingredient, information to show that the other active ingredients of the drug product are the same as the other active ingredients of the reference listed drug, information to show that the different active ingredient is an active ingredient of another listed drug or of a drug that does not meet the definition of new drug in section 201(p) of the act, and such other information about the different active ingredient that fda may require. 
(b) a reference to the applicant's annotated proposed labeling and to the currently approved labeling for the reference listed drug provided under paragraph (a)(8) of this section. 
(6) route of administration, dosage form, and strength. (i) information to show that the route of administration, dosage form, and strength of the drug product are the same as those of the reference listed drug except for any differences that have been the subject of an approved petition, as follows: 
(a) a statement that the route of administration, dosage form, and strength of the proposed drug product are the same as those of the reference listed drug. 
(b) a reference to the applicant's annotated proposed labeling and to the currently approved labeling for the reference listed drug provided under paragraph (a)(8) of this section. 
(ii) if the route of administration, dosage form, or strength of the drug product differs from the reference listed drug and the abbreviated application is submitted under an approved petition under  314.93, such information about the different route of administration, dosage form, or strength that fda may require. 
(7) bioequivalence. (i) information that shows that the drug product is bioequivalent to the reference listed drug upon which the applicant relies. a complete study report must be submitted for the bioequivalence study upon which the applicant relies for approval. for all other bioequivalence studies conducted on the same drug product formulation as defined in  320.1(g) of this chapter, the applicant must submit either a complete or summary report. if a summary report of a bioequivalence study is submitted and fda determines that there may be bioequivalence issues or concerns with the product, fda may require that the applicant submit a complete report of the bioequivalence study to fda; or 
(ii) if the abbreviated new drug application is submitted under a petition approved under  314.93, the results of any bioavailability of bioequivalence testing required by the agency, or any other information required by the agency to show that the active ingredients of the proposed drug product are of the same pharmacological or therapeutic class as those in the reference listed drug and that the proposed drug product can be expected to have the same therapeutic effect as the reference listed drug. if the proposed drug product contains a different active ingredient than the reference listed drug, fda will consider the proposed drug product to have the same therapeutic effect as the reference listed drug if the applicant provides information demonstrating that: 
(a) there is an adequate scientific basis for determining that substitution of the specific proposed dose of the different active ingredient for the dose of the member of the same pharmacological or therapeutic class in the reference listed drug will yield a resulting drug product whose safety and effectiveness have not been adversely affected. 
(b) the unchanged active ingredients in the proposed drug product are bioequivalent to those in the reference listed drug. 
(c) the different active ingredient in the proposed drug product is bioequivalent to an approved dosage form containing that ingredient and approved for the same indication as the proposed drug product or is bioequivalent to a drug product offered for that indication which does not meet the definition of new drug under section 201(p) of the act. 
(iii) for each in vivo bioequivalence study contained in the abbreviated new drug application, a description of the analytical and statistical methods used in each study and a statement with respect to each study that it either was conducted in compliance with the institutional review board regulations in part 56 of this chapter, or was not subject to the regulations under  56.104 or  56.105 of this chapter and that each study was conducted in compliance with the informed consent regulations in part 50 of this chapter. 
(8) labeling (i) listed drug labeling. a copy of the currently approved labeling (including, if applicable, any medication guide required under part 208 of this chapter) for the listed drug referred to in the abbreviated new drug application, if the abbreviated new drug application relies on a reference listed drug. 
(ii) copies of proposed labeling. copies of the label and all labeling for the drug product including, if applicable, any medication guide required under part 208 of this chapter (4 copies of draft labeling or 12 copies of final printed labeling). 
(iii) statement on proposed labeling. a statement that the applicant's proposed labeling including, if applicable, any medication guide required under part 208 of this chapter is the same as the labeling of the reference listed drug except for differences annotated and explained under paragraph (a)(8)(iv) of this section. 
(iv) comparison of approved and proposed labeling. a side-by-side comparison of the applicant's proposed labeling including, if applicable, any medication guide required under part 208 of this chapter with the approved labeling for the reference listed drug with all differences annotated and explained. labeling (including the container label, package insert, and, if applicable, medication guide) proposed for the drug product must be the same as the labeling approved for the reference listed drug, except for changes required because of differences approved under a petition filed under  314.93 or because the drug product and the reference listed drug are produced or distributed by different manufacturers. such differences between the applicant's proposed labeling and labeling approved for the reference listed drug may include differences in expiration date, formulation, bioavailability, or pharmacokinetics, labeling revisions made to comply with current fda labeling guidelines or other guidance, or omission of an indication or other aspect of labeling protected by patent or accorded exclusivity under section 505(j)(5)(f) of the act. 
(9) chemistry, manufacturing, and controls. (i) the information required under  314.50(d)(1), except that  314.50(d)(1)(ii)( ) shall contain the proposed or actual master production record, including a description of the equipment, to be used for the manufacture of a commercial lot of the drug product. 
(ii) inactive ingredients. unless otherwise stated in paragraphs (a)(9)(iii) through (a)(9)(v) of this section, an applicant shall identify and characterize the inactive ingredients in the proposed drug product and provide information demonstrating that such inactive ingredients do not affect the safety or efficacy of the proposed drug product. 
(iii) inactive ingredient changes permitted in drug products intended for parenteral use. generally, a drug product intended for parenteral use shall contain the same inactive ingredients and in the same concentration as the reference listed drug identified by the applicant under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. however, an applicant may seek approval of a drug product that differs from the reference listed drug in preservative, buffer, or antioxidant provided that the applicant identifies and characterizes the differences and provides information demonstrating that the differences do not affect the safety or efficacy of the proposed drug product. 
(iv) inactive ingredient changes permitted in drug products intended for ophthalmic or otic use. generally, a drug product intended for ophthalmic or otic use shall contain the same inactive ingredients and in the same concentration as the reference listed drug identified by the applicant under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. however, an applicant may seek approval of a drug product that differs from the reference listed drug in preservative, buffer, substance to adjust tonicity, or thickening agent provided that the applicant identifies and characterizes the differences and provides information demonstrating that the differences do not affect the safety or efficacy of the proposed drug product, except that, in a product intended for ophthalmic use, an applicant may not change a buffer or substance to adjust tonicity for the purpose of claiming a therapeutic advantage over or difference from the listed drug, e.g., by using a balanced salt solution as a diluent as opposed to an isotonic saline solution, or by making a significant change in the ph or other change that may raise questions of irritability. 
(v) inactive ingredient changes permitted in drug products intended for topical use. generally, a drug product intended for topical use, solutions for aerosolization or nebulization, and nasal solutions shall contain the same inactive ingredients as the reference listed drug identified by the applicant under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. however, an abbreviated application may include different inactive ingredients provided that the applicant identifies and characterizes the differences and provides information demonstrating that the differences do not affect the safety or efficacy of the proposed drug product. 
(10) samples. the information required under  314.50(e)(1) and (e)(2)(i). samples need not be submitted until requested by fda. 
(11) other. the information required under  314.50(g). 
(12) patent certification (i) patents claiming drug, drug product, or method of use. (a) except as provided in paragraph (a)(12)(iv) of this section, a certification with respect to each patent issued by the united states patent and trademark office that, in the opinion of the applicant and to the best of its knowledge, claims the reference listed drug or that claims a use of such listed drug for which the applicant is seeking approval under section 505(j) of the act and for which information is required to be filed under section 505(b) and (c) of the act and  314.53. for each such patent, the applicant shall provide the patent number and certify, in its opinion and to the best of its knowledge, one of the following circumstances: 
) that the patent information has not been submitted to fda. the applicant shall entitle such a certification paragraph i certification; 
) that the patent has expired. the applicant shall entitle such a certification paragraph ii certification; 
) the date on which the patent will expire. the applicant shall entitle such a certification paragraph iii certification; or 
) that the patent is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the drug product for which the abbreviated application is submitted. the applicant shall entitle such a certification paragraph iv certification. this certification shall be submitted in the following form: 
i, ( name of applicant ), certify that patent no. ______ ( is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of ) ( name of proposed drug product ) for which this application is submitted. 
the certification shall be accompanied by a statement that the applicant will comply with the requirements under  314.95(a) with respect to providing a notice to each owner of the patent or their representatives and to the holder of the approved application for the listed drug, and with the requirements under  314.95(c) with respect to the content of the notice. 
(b) if the abbreviated new drug application refers to a listed drug that is itself a licensed generic product of a patented drug first approved under section 505(b) of the act, the appropriate patent certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section with respect to each patent that claims the first-approved patented drug or that claims a use for such drug. 
(ii) no relevant patents. if, in the opinion of the applicant and to the best of its knowledge, there are no patents described in paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section, a certification in the following form: 
in the opinion and to the best knowledge of ( name of applicant ), there are no patents that claim the listed drug referred to in this application or that claim a use of the listed drug. 
(iii) method of use patent. (a) if patent information is submitted under section 505(b) or (c) of the act and  314.53 for a patent claiming a method of using the listed drug, and the labeling for the drug product for which the applicant is seeking approval does not include any indications that are covered by the use patent, a statement explaining that the method of use patent does not claim any of the proposed indications. 
(b) if the labeling of the drug product for which the applicant is seeking approval includes an indication that, according to the patent information submitted under section 505(b) or (c) of the act and  314.53 or in the opinion of the applicant, is claimed by a use patent, an applicable certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section. 
(iv) method of manufacturing patent. an applicant is not required to make a certification with respect to any patent that claims only a method of manufacturing the listed drug. 
(v) licensing agreements. if the abbreviated new drug application is for a drug or method of using a drug claimed by a patent and the applicant has a licensing agreement with the patent owner, a certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i)(a)( ) of this section (paragraph iv certification) as to that patent and a statement that it has been granted a patent license. 
(vi) late submission of patent information. if a patent on the listed drug is issued and the holder of the approved application for the listed drug does not submit the required information on the patent within 30 days of issuance of the patent, an applicant who submitted an abbreviated new drug application for that drug that contained an appropriate patent certification before the submission of the patent information is not required to submit an amended certification. an applicant whose abbreviated new drug application is submitted after a late submission of patent information, or whose pending abbreviated application was previously submitted but did not contain an appropriate patent certification at the time of the patent submission, shall submit a certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section or a statement under paragraph (a)(12)(iii) of this section as to that patent. 
(vii) disputed patent information. if an applicant disputes the accuracy or relevance of patent information submitted to fda, the applicant may seek a confirmation of the correctness of the patent information in accordance with the procedures under  314.53(f). unless the patent information is withdrawn or changed, the applicant shall submit an appropriate certification for each relevant patent. 
(viii) amended certifications. a certification submitted under paragraphs (a)(12)(i) through (a)(12)(iii) of this section may be amended at any time before the effective date of the approval of the application. however, an applicant who has submitted a paragraph iv patent certification may not change it to a paragraph iii certification if a patent infringement suit has been filed against another paragraph iv applicant unless the agency has determined that no applicant is entitled to 180-day exclusivity or the patent expires before the lawsuit is resolved or expires after the suit is resolved but before the end of the 180-day exclusivity period. if an applicant with a pending application voluntarily makes a patent certification for an untimely filed patent, the applicant may withdraw the patent certification for the untimely filed patent. an applicant shall submit an amended certification by letter or as an amendment to a pending application or by letter to an approved application. once an amendment or letter is submitted, the application will no longer be considered to contain the prior certification. 
(a) after finding of infringement. an applicant who has submitted a certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i)(a)( ) of this section and is sued for patent infringement within 45 days of the receipt of notice sent under  314.95 shall amend the certification if a final judgment in the action against the applicant is entered finding the patent to be infringed. in the amended certification, the applicant shall certify under paragraph (a)(12)(i)(a)( ) of this section that the patent will expire on a specific date. once an amendment or letter for the change has been submitted, the application will no longer be considered to be one containing a certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i)(a)( ) of this section. if a final judgment finds the patent to be invalid and infringed, an amended certification is not required. 
(b) after removal of a patent from the list. if a patent is removed from the list, any applicant with a pending application (including a tentatively approved application with a delayed effective date) who has made a certification with respect to such patent shall amend its certification. the applicant shall certify under paragraph (a)(12)(ii) of this section that no patents described in paragraph (a)(12)(i) of this section claim the drug or, if other relevant patents claim the drug, shall amend the certification to refer only to those relevant patents. in the amendment, the applicant shall state the reason for the change in certification (that the patent is or has been removed from the list). a patent that is the subject of a lawsuit under  314.107(c) shall not be removed from the list until fda determines either that no delay in effective dates of approval is required under that section as a result of the lawsuit, that the patent has expired, or that any such period of delay in effective dates of approval is ended. an applicant shall submit an amended certification. once an amendment or letter for the change has been submitted, the application will no longer be considered to be one containing a certification under paragraph (a)(12)(i)(a)(4) of this section. 
(c) other amendments. ) except as provided in paragraphs (a)(12)(vi) and (a)(12)(viii)(c)( ) of this section, an applicant shall amend a submitted certification if, at any time before the effective date of the approval of the application, the applicant learns that the submitted certification is no longer accurate. 
) an applicant is not required to amend a submitted certification when information on a patent on the listed drug is submitted after the effective date of approval of the abbreviated application. 
(13) financial certification or disclosure statement. an abbreviated application shall contain a financial certification or disclosure statement as required by part 54 of this chapter. 
(b) drug products subject to the drug efficacy study implementation (desi) review. if the abbreviated new drug application is for a duplicate of a drug product that is subject to fda's desi review (a review of drug products approved as safe between 1938 and 1962) or other desi-like review and the drug product evaluated in the review is a listed drug, the applicant shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. 
(c) [reserved] 
(d) format of an abbreviated application. (1) the applicant must submit a complete archival copy of the abbreviated application as required under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section. fda will maintain the archival copy during the review of the application to permit individual reviewers to refer to information that is not contained in their particular technical sections of the application, to give other agency personnel access to the application for official business, and to maintain in one place a complete copy of the application. 
(i) format of submission. an applicant may submit portions of the archival copy of the abbreviated application in any form that the applicant and fda agree is acceptable, except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. 
(ii) labeling. the content of labeling required under  201.100(d)(3) of this chapter (commonly referred to as the package insert or professional labeling), including all text, tables, and figures, must be submitted to the agency in electronic format as described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. this requirement applies to the content of labeling for the proposed drug product only and is in addition to the requirements of paragraph (a)(8)(ii) of this section that copies of the formatted label and all proposed labeling be submitted. submissions under this paragraph must be made in accordance with part 11 of this chapter, except for the requirements of  11.10(a), (c) through (h), and (k), and the corresponding requirements of  11.30. 
(iii) electronic format submissions. electronic format submissions must be in a form that fda can process, review, and archive. fda will periodically issue guidance on how to provide the electronic submission (e.g., method of transmission, media, file formats, preparation and organization of files). 
(2) for abbreviated new drug applications, the applicant shall submit a review copy of the abbreviated application that contains two separate sections. one section shall contain the information described under paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(6), (a)(8), and (a)(9) of this section 505(j)(2)(a)(vii) of the act and one copy of the analytical procedures and descriptive information needed by fda's laboratories to perform tests on samples of the proposed drug product and to validate the applicant's analytical procedures. the other section shall contain the information described under paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(7), and (a)(8) of this section. each of the sections in the review copy is required to contain a copy of the application form described under  314.50(a). 
(3) [reserved] 
(4) the applicant may obtain from fda sufficient folders to bind the archival, the review, and the field copies of the abbreviated application. 
(5) the applicant shall submit a field copy of the abbreviated application that contains the technical section described in paragraph (a)(9) of this section, a copy of the application form required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and a certification that the field copy is a true copy of the technical section described in paragraph (a)(9) of this section contained in the archival and review copies of the abbreviated application. 

