" 314.60 
amendments to an unapproved application, supplement, or resubmission. 
(a) fda generally assumes that when an original application, supplement to an approved application, or resubmission of an application or supplement is submitted to the agency for review, the applicant believes that the agency can approve the application, supplement, or resubmission as submitted. however, the applicant may submit an amendment to an application that has been filed under  314.101 but is not yet approved. 
(b)(1) submission of a major amendment to an original application, efficacy supplement, or resubmission of an application or efficacy supplement within 3 months of the end of the initial review cycle constitutes an agreement by the applicant under section 505(c) of the act to extend the initial review cycle by 3 months. (for references to a resubmission of an application or efficacy supplement in paragraph (b) of this section, the timeframe for reviewing the resubmission is the review cycle rather than the initial review cycle.) fda may instead defer review of the amendment until the subsequent review cycle. if the agency extends the initial review cycle for an original application, efficacy supplement, or resubmission under this paragraph, the division responsible for reviewing the application, supplement, or resubmission will notify the applicant of the extension. the initial review cycle for an original application, efficacy supplement, or resubmission of an application or efficacy supplement may be extended only once due to submission of a major amendment. fda may, at its discretion, review any subsequent major amendment during the initial review cycle (as extended) or defer review until the subsequent review cycle. 
(2) submission of a major amendment to an original application, efficacy supplement, or resubmission of an application or efficacy supplement more than 3 months before the end of the initial review cycle will not extend the cycle. fda may, at its discretion, review such an amendment during the initial review cycle or defer review until the subsequent review cycle. 
(3) submission of an amendment to an original application, efficacy supplement, or resubmission of an application or efficacy supplement that is not a major amendment will not extend the initial review cycle. fda may, at its discretion, review such an amendment during the initial review cycle or defer review until the subsequent review cycle. 
(4) submission of a major amendment to a manufacturing supplement within 2 months of the end of the initial review cycle constitutes an agreement by the applicant under section 505(c) of the act to extend the initial review cycle by 2 months. fda may instead defer review of the amendment until the subsequent review cycle. if the agency extends the initial review cycle for a manufacturing supplement under this paragraph, the division responsible for reviewing the supplement will notify the applicant of the extension. the initial review cycle for a manufacturing supplement may be extended only once due to submission of a major amendment. fda may, at its discretion, review any subsequent major amendment during the initial review cycle (as extended) or defer review until the subsequent review cycle. 
(5) submission of an amendment to a supplement other than an efficacy or manufacturing supplement will not extend the initial review cycle. fda may, at its discretion, review such an amendment during the initial review cycle or defer review until the subsequent review cycle. 
(6) a major amendment may not include data to support an indication or claim that was not included in the original application, supplement, or resubmission, but it may include data to support a minor modification of an indication or claim that was included in the original application, supplement, or resubmission. 
(7) when fda defers review of an amendment until the subsequent review cycle, the agency will notify the applicant of the deferral in the complete response letter sent to the applicant under  314.110 of this part. 
(c)(1) an unapproved application may not be amended if all of the following conditions apply: 
(i) the unapproved application is for a drug for which a previous application has been approved and granted a period of exclusivity in accordance with section 505(c)(3)(d)(ii) of the act that has not expired; 
(ii) the applicant seeks to amend the unapproved application to include a published report of an investigation that was conducted or sponsored by the applicant entitled to exclusivity for the drug; 
(iii) the applicant has not obtained a right of reference to the investigation described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section; and 
(iv) the report of the investigation described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section would be essential to the approval of the unapproved application. 
(2) the submission of an amendment described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section will cause the unapproved application to be deemed to be withdrawn by the applicant under  314.65 on the date of receipt by fda of the amendment. the amendment will be considered a resubmission of the application, which may not be accepted except as provided in accordance with section 505(c)(3)(d)(ii) of the act. 
(d) the applicant shall submit a field copy of each amendment to  314.50(d)(1). the applicant shall include in its submission of each such amendment to fda a statement certifying that a field copy of the amendment has been sent to the applicant's home fda district office. 

