" 314.161 
determination of reasons for voluntary withdrawal of a listed drug. 
(a) a determination whether a listed drug that has been voluntarily withdrawn from sale was withdrawn for safety or effectiveness reasons may be made by the agency at any time after the drug has been voluntarily withdrawn from sale, but must be made: 
(1) prior to approving an abbreviated new drug application that refers to the listed drug; 
(2) whenever a listed drug is voluntarily withdrawn from sale and abbreviated new drug applications that referred to the listed drug have been approved; and 
(3) when a person petitions for such a determination under  10.25(a) and 10.30 of this chapter. 
(b) any person may petition under  10.25(a) and 10.30 of this chapter for a determination whether a listed drug has been voluntarily withdrawn for safety or effectiveness reasons. any such petition must contain all evidence available to the petitioner concerning the reason that the drug is withdrawn from sale. 
(c) if the agency determines that a listed drug is withdrawn from sale for safety or effectiveness reasons, the agency will, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, publish a notice of the determination in the federal register. 
(d) if the agency determines under paragraph (a) of this section that a listed drug is withdrawn from sale for safety and effectiveness reasons and there are approved abbreviated new drug applications that are subject to suspension under section 505(j)(5) of the act, fda will initiate a proceeding in accordance with  314.153(b). 
(e) a drug that the agency determines is withdrawn for safety or effectiveness reasons will be removed from the list, under  314.162. the drug may be relisted if the agency has evidence that marketing of the drug has resumed or that the withdrawal is not for safety or effectiveness reasons. a determination that the drug is not withdrawn for safety or effectiveness reasons may be made at any time after its removal from the list, upon the agency's initiative, or upon the submission of a petition under  10.25(a) and 10.30 of this chapter. if the agency determines that the drug is not withdrawn for safety or effectiveness reasons, the agency shall publish a notice of this determination in the federal register. the notice will also announce that the drug is relisted, under  314.162(c). the notice will also serve to reinstate approval of all suspended abbreviated new drug applications that referred to the listed drug. 

