" 330.1 
general conditions for general recognition as safe, effective and not misbranded. 
an over-the-counter (otc) drug listed in this subchapter is generally recognized as safe and effective and is not misbranded if it meets each of the conditions contained in this part and each of the conditions contained in any applicable monograph. any product which fails to conform to each of the conditions contained in this part and in an applicable monograph is liable to regulatory action. 
(a) the product is manufactured in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, as established by parts 210 and 211 of this chapter. 
(b) the establishment(s) in which the drug product is manufactured is registered, and the drug product is listed, in compliance with part 207 of this chapter. it is requested but not required that the number assigned to the product pursuant to part 207 of this chapter appear on all drug labels and in all drug labeling. if this number is used, it shall be placed in the manner set forth in part 207 of this chapter. 
(c)(1) the product is labeled in compliance with chapter v of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (the act) and subchapter c et seq. of this chapter, including the format and content requirements in  201.66 of this chapter. an otc drug product that is not in compliance with chapter v and subchapter c, including  201.66 of this chapter, is subject to regulatory action. for purposes of  201.61(b) of this chapter, the statement of identity of the product shall be the term or phrase used in the applicable otc drug monograph established in this part. 
(2) the uses section of the label and labeling of the product shall contain the labeling describing the indications that have been established in an applicable otc drug monograph or alternative truthful and nonmisleading statements describing only those indications for use that have been established in an applicable monograph, subject to the provisions of section 502 of the act relating to misbranding and the prohibition in section 301(d) of the act against the introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of unapproved new drugs in violation of section 505(a) of the act. any other labeling under this subchapter and subchapter c et seq. of this chapter shall be stated in the exact language where exact language has been established and identified by quotation marks in an applicable otc drug monograph or by regulation (e.g.,  201.63 of this chapter), except as provided in paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section. 
(d) the advertising for the product prescribes, recommends, or suggests its use only under the conditions stated in the labeling. 
(e) the product contains only suitable inactive ingredients which are safe in the amounts administered and do not interfere with the effectiveness of the preparation or with suitable tests or assays to determine if the product meets its professed standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity. color additives may be used only in accordance with section 721 of the act and subchapter a of this chapter. 
(f) the product container and container components meet the requirements of  211.94 of this chapter. 
(g) the labeling for all drugs contains the general warning: keep out of reach of children. [highlighted in bold type]. the labeling of drugs shall also state as follows: for drugs used by oral administration, in case of overdose, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away; for drugs used topically, rectally, or vaginally and not intended for oral ingestion, if swallowed, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away; and for drugs used topically and intended for oral use, if more than used for (insert intended use, e.g., pain) is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away. the food and drug administration will grant an exemption from these general warnings where appropriate upon petition, which shall be maintained in a permanent file for public review by the division of dockets management, food and drug administration, 5630 fishers lane, rm. 1061, rockville, md 20852. 
(h) where no maximum daily dosage limit for an active ingredient is established in this part, it is used in a product at a level that does not exceed the amount reasonably required to achieve its intended effect. 
(i) the following terms may be used interchangeably in the labeling of otc drug products, provided such use does not alter the meaning of the labeling that has been established and identified in an applicable monograph or by regulation. the following terms shall not be used to change in any way the title, headings, and subheadings required under  201.66(c)(1) through (c)(9) of this chapter: 
(1) abdominal or stomach (in context only). 
(2) administer or give. 
(3) aggravate(s) or make(s) worse. 
(4) application of this product or applying. 
(5) are uncertain or do not know. 
(6) ask or consult or contact. 
(7) asking or consulting. 
(8) assistance or help or aid. 
(9) associated with or due to or caused by. 
(10) avoid contact with eyes or do not get into eyes. 
(11) avoid inhaling or do not inhale. 
(12) before a doctor is consulted or without first consulting your doctor or consult your doctor before. 
(13) beverages or drinks. 
(14) clean or cleanse. 
(15) consulting or advising. 
(16) continue(s) or persist(s) or is persistent or do(es) not go away or last(s). 
(17) daily or every day. 
(18) develop(s) or begin(s) or occur(s). 
(19) difficulty or trouble. 
(20) difficulty in urination or trouble urinating. 
(21) discard or throw away. 
(22) discontinue or stop or quit. 
(23) doctor or physician. 
(24) drowsiness or the drowsiness effect. 
(25) drowsiness may occur or you may get drowsy. 
(26) enlargement of the or an enlarged. 
(27) especially in children or especially children. 
(28) exceed or use more than or go beyond. 
(29) exceed recommended dosage or use more than directed. 
(30) excessive or too much. 
(31) excitability may occur or you may get excited. 
(32) experience or feel. 
(33) for relief of or relieves. 
(34) for temporary reduction of or temporarily reduces. 
(35) for the temporary relief of or temporarily relieves. 
(36) for the treatment of or treats. 
(37) frequently or often. 
(38) give to or use in. 
(39) immediately or right away or directly. 
(40) immediately or as soon as. 
(41) immediately following or right after. 
(42) improve(s) or get(s) better or make(s) better. 
(43) increased or more. 
(44) increase your risk of or cause. 
(45) indication(s) or use(s). 
(46) inhalation or puff. 
(47) in persons who or if you or if the child. 
(48) instill or put. 
(49) is (are) accompanied by or you also have (in context only) or (optional: that) occur(s) with. 
(50) longer or more. 
(51) lung or pulmonary. 
(52) medication(s) or medicine(s) or drug(s). 
(53) nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occurs or you get nervous, dizzy, or sleepless. 
(54) not to exceed or do not exceed or not more than. 
(55) obtain(s) or get(s). 
(56) passages or passageways or tubes. 
(57) perforation of or hole in. 
(58) persistent or that does not go away or that continues or that lasts. 
(59) per day or daily. 
(60) presently or now. 
(61) produce(s) or cause(s). 
(62) prompt(ly) or quick(ly) or right away. 
(63) reduce or minimize. 
(64) referred to as or of. 
(65) sensation or feeling. 
(66) solution or liquid. 
(67) specifically or definitely. 
(68) take or use or give. 
(69) tend(s) to recur or reoccur(s) or return(s) or come(s) back. 
(70) to avoid contamination or avoid contamination or do not contaminate. 
(71) to help or helps. 
(72) unless directed by a doctor or except under the advice of a doctor or unless told to do so by a doctor. 
(73) use caution or be careful. 
(74) usually or generally (in context only). 
(75) you (your) or the child (the child's). 
(76) you also have or occurs with. 
(77) when practical or if possible. 
(78) whether or if. 
(79) worsen(s) or get(s) worse or make(s) worse. 
(j) the following connecting terms may be deleted from the labeling of otc drug products, provided such deletion does not alter the meaning of the labeling that has been established and identified in an applicable monograph or by regulation. the following terms shall not be used to change in any way the specific title, headings, and subheadings required under  201.66(c)(1) through (c)(9) of this chapter: 
(l) and. 
(2) as may occur with. 
(3) associated or to be associated. 
(4) consult a doctor. 
(5) discontinue use. 
(6) drug interaction precaution. 
(7) due to. 
(8) except under the advice and supervision of a physician. 
(9) if this occurs. 
(10) in case of. 
(11) notice. 
(12) or. 
(13) occurring with. 
(14) or as directed by a doctor. 
(15) such as. 
(16) such as occurs with. 
(17) tends to. 
(18) this product. 
(19) unless directed by a doctor. 
(20) while taking this product or before taking this product. 
(21) within. 

