" 331.80 
professional labeling. 
(a) the labeling of the product provided to health professionals (but not to the general public): 
(1) shall contain the neutralizing capacity of the product as calculated using the procedure set forth in united states pharmacopeia 23/national formulary 18 expressed in terms of the dosage recommended per minimum time interval or, if the labeling recommends more than one dosage, in terms of the minimum dosage recommended per minimum time interval. 
(2) may contain an indication for the symptomatic relief of hyperacidity associated with the diagnosis of peptic ulcer, gastritis, peptic esophagitis, gastric hyperacidity, and hiatal hernia. 
(3) for products containing basic aluminum carbonate gel identified in  331.11(a)(1)indication. for the treatment, control, or management of hyperphosphatemia, or for use with a low phosphate diet to prevent formation of phosphate urinary stones, through the reduction of phosphates in the serum and urine. 
(4) for products containing aluminum identified in  331.11(a)  warnings. (i) prolonged use of aluminum-containing antacids in patients with renal failure may result in or worsen dialysis osteomalacia. elevated tissue aluminum levels contribute to the development of the dialysis encephalopathy and osteomalacia syndromes. small amounts of aluminum are absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and renal excretion of aluminum is impaired in renal failure. aluminum is not well removed by dialysis because it is bound to albumin and transferrin, which do not cross dialysis membranes. as a result, aluminum is deposited in bone, and dialysis osteomalacia may develop when large amounts of aluminum are ingested orally by patients with impaired renal function. 
(ii) aluminum forms insoluble complexes with phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract, thus decreasing phosphate absorption. prolonged use of aluminum-containing antacids by normophosphatemic patients may result in hypophosphatemia if phosphate intake is not adequate. in its more severe forms, hypophosphatemia can lead to anorexia, malaise, muscle weakness, and osteomalacia. 
(b) professional labeling for an antacid-antiflatulent combination may contain the information allowed for health professionals for antacids and antiflatulents. 

