" 333.250 
labeling of antifungal drug products. 
(a) statement of identity. the labeling of the product contains the established name of the drug, if any, and identifies the product as an antifungal. 
(b) indications. the labeling of the product states, under the heading indications, the phrase listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section and may contain the additional phrase listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. other truthful and nonmisleading statements, describing only the indications for use that have been established in paragraph (b) of this section, may also be used, as provided in  330.1(c)(2) of this chapter, subject to the provisions of section 502 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (the act) relating to misbranding and the prohibition in section 301(d) of the act against the introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of unapproved new drugs in violation of section 505(a) of the act. 
(1) for products containing any ingredient identified in  333.210 labeled for the treatment of athlete's foot, jock itch, and ringworm. (i) (select one of the following: treats, for the treatment of, for effective treatment of, cures, for the cure of, clears up, or proven clinically effective in the treatment of) most (select one condition from any one or more of the following groups of conditions: 
(a) athlete's foot, athlete's foot (dermatophytosis), athlete's foot (tinea pedis), or tinea pedis (athlete's foot); 
(b) jock itch, jock itch (tinea cruris), or tinea cruris (jock itch); or 
(c) ringworm, ringworm (tinea corporis), or tinea corporis (ringworm).) 
(ii) in addition to the information identified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the labeling of the product may contain the following statement: (select one of the following: relieves, for relief of, for effective relief of, or soothes,) (select one or more of the following: itching, scaling, cracking, burning, redness, soreness, irritation, discomfort, chafing associated with jock itch, itchy, scaly skin between the toes, or itching, burning feet). 
(2) for products containing the ingredient identified in  333.210(e) labeled for the prevention of athlete's foot. (i) (select one of the following: clinically proven to prevent, prevents, proven effective in the prevention of, helps prevent, for the prevention of, for the prophylaxis (prevention) of, guards against, or prevents the recurrence of) most (select one of the following: athlete's foot, athlete's foot (dermatophytosis), athlete's foot (tinea pedis), or tinea pedis (athlete's foot)) with daily use. 
(ii) in addition to the information identified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the labeling of the product may contain the following statement: clears up most athlete's foot infection and with daily use helps keep it from coming back. 
(c) warnings. the labeling of the product contains the following warnings under the heading warnings: 
(1) for products containing any ingredient identified in  330.210. (i) do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. 
(ii) for external use only. 
(iii) avoid contact with the eyes. 
(2) for products labeled according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the treatment of athlete's foot and ringworm. if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks, discontinue use and consult a doctor. 
(3) for products labeled according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the treatment of jock itch. if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 2 weeks, discontinue use and consult a doctor. 
(4) for products labeled according to paragraph (b)(2) of this section for the prevention of athlete's foot. if irritation occurs, discontinue use and consult a doctor. 
(5) for products containing the ingredient identified in  333.210(a) labeled according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section. the following statements must appear in boldface type as the first warnings under the warnings heading. (i) do not use on children under 2 years of age. (this warning is to be used in place of the warning in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.) 
(ii) do not use for diaper rash. 
(d) directions. the labeling of the product contains the following statements under the heading directions: 
(1) for products labeled according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the treatment of athlete's foot, jock itch, and ringworm. [select one of the following: clean or wash] the affected area and dry thoroughly. apply (the word spray may be used to replace the word apply for aerosol products) a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor. supervise children in the use of this product. for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. for athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks. if condition persists longer, consult a doctor. this product is not effective on the scalp or nails. 
(2) for products labeled according to paragraph (b)(2) of this section for the prevention of athlete's foot. to prevent athlete's foot, (select one of the following: clean or wash) the feet and dry thoroughly. apply (the word spray may be used to replace the word apply for aerosol products) a thin layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily (morning and/or night). supervise children in the use of this product. pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. 
(e) the word physician may be substituted for the word doctor in any of the labeling statements in this section. 

