" 358.760 
labeling of permitted combinations of active ingredients for the control of dandruff. 
the statement of identity, indications, warnings, and directions for use, respectively, applicable to each ingredient in the product may be combined to eliminate duplicative words or phrases so that the resulting information is clear and understandable. 
(a) statement of identity. for a combination drug product that has an established name, the labeling of the product states the established name of the combination drug product, followed by the statement of identity for each ingredient in the combination, as established in the statement of identity sections of the applicable otc drug monographs. 
(1) combinations of control of dandruff and external analgesic active ingredients in  358.720(b). the label states dandruff/anti-itch shampoo or antidandruff/anti-itch shampoo. 
(2) [reserved] 
(b) indications. the labeling of the product states, under the heading uses, one or more of the phrases listed in this paragraph (b), as appropriate. other truthful and nonmisleading statements, describing only the uses that have been established and listed in this paragraph (b), may also be used, as provided in  330.1(c)(2) of this chapter, subject to the provisions of section 502 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (the act) relating to misbranding and the prohibition in section 301(d) of the act against the introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of unapproved new drugs in violation of section 505(a) of the act. 
(1) combinations of control of dandruff and external analgesic active ingredients in  358.720(b). the labeling states [bullet] [select one of the following: for relief of' or controls'] the symptoms of dandruff [bullet] [select one of the following: additional' or extra'] relief of itching due to dandruff. 
(2) the following terms or phrases may be used in place of or in addition to the words for the relief of or controls in the indications in paragraph (b)(1) of this section: fights, reduces, helps eliminate, helps stop, controls recurrence of, fights recurrence of, helps prevent recurrence of, reduces recurrence of, helps eliminate recurrence of, helps stop recurrence of. 
(3) the following terms may be used in place of the words the symptoms of in the indication in paragraph (b)(1) of this section: scalp (select one or more of the following: itching, irritation, redness, flaking, scaling) associated with. 
(c) warnings. the labeling of the product states, under the heading warnings, the warning(s) listed in  358.750(c)(1) and (c)(2). 
(d) directions. the labeling of the product states, under the heading directions, directions that conform to the directions established for each ingredient in the directions sections of the applicable otc drug monographs, unless otherwise stated in this paragraph (d). when the time intervals or age limitations for administration of the individual ingredients differ, the directions for the combination product may not contain any dosage that exceeds those established for any individual ingredient in the applicable otc drug monograph(s), and may not provide for use by any age group lower than the highest minimum age limit established for any individual ingredient. 
(1) combinations of control of dandruff and external analgesic active ingredients in  358.720(b). the labeling states [bullet] wet hair [bullet] apply shampoo and work into a lather [bullet] rinse thoroughly [bullet] for best results, use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. 
(2) [reserved] 

