" 500.55 
exemption from certain drug-labeling requirements. 
(a) section 201.105(c) of this chapter provides that in the case of certain drugs for which directions, hazards, warnings, and use information are commonly known to practitioners licensed by law, such information may be omitted from the dispensing package. under this proviso, the commissioner of food and drugs will offer an opinion, upon written request, stating reasonable grounds therefore on a proposal to omit such information from the dispensing package. 
(b) the commissioner of food and drugs has considered submitted material covering a number of drug products and has offered the opinion that the following drugs when intended for those veterinary uses for which they are now generally employed by the veterinary medical profession, should be exempt from the requirements of  201.105(c) of this chapter, provided that they meet the conditions prescribed in this paragraph. preparations that are not in dosage unit form (for example, solutions) will be regarded as meeting the conditions with respect to the maximum quantity of drug per dosage unit if they are prepared in a manner that enables accurate and ready administration of a quantity of drug not in excess of the stated maximum per dosage unit: 
atropine sulfate. as an injectable for cattle, goats, horses, pigs, and sheep, not in excess of 15 milligrams per dosage unit; as an injectable for cats and dogs, not in excess of 0.6 milligram per dosage unit. barbital sodium. for oral use in cats and dogs, not in excess of 300 milligrams per dosage unit. epinephrine injection. 1:1,000. for cats, dogs, cattle, goats, horses, pigs, and sheep (except as provided in  500.65). morphine sulfate. as an injectable for dogs, not in excess of 15 milligrams per dosage unit. pentobarbital sodium. for oral use in cats and dogs, not in excess of 100 milligrams per dosage unit. phenobarbital sodium. for oral use in cats and dogs, not in excess of 100 milligrams per dosage unit. procaine hydrochloride injection. containing not in excess of 2 percent procaine hydrochloride, with or without epinephrine up to a concentration of 1:50,000. for use in cats, dogs, cattle, goats, horses, pigs, and sheep. thyroid. for oral use in dogs, not in excess of 60 milligrams per dosage unit.", 
