" 501.2 
information panel of package for animal food. 
(a) the term information panel as it applies to packaged food means that part of the label immediately contiguous and to the right of the principal display panel as observed by an individual facing the principal display panel with the following exceptions: 
(1) if the part of the label immediately contiguous and to the right of the principal display panel is too small to accommodate the necessary information or is otherwise unusable label space, e.g., folded flaps or can ends, the panel immediately contiguous and to the right of this part of the label may be used. 
(2) if the package has one or more alternate principal display panels, the information panel is immediately contiguous and to the right of any principal display panel. 
(3) if the top of the container is the principal display panel and the package has no alternate principal display panel, the information panel is any panel adjacent to the principal display panel. 
(b) all information required to appear on the label of any package of food pursuant to  501.4, 501.5, 501.8 and 501.17 shall appear either on the principal display panel or on the information panel, unless otherwise specified by regulations in this chapter. 
(c) all information appearing on the principal display panel or the information panel pursuant to this section shall appear prominently and conspicuously, but in no case may the letters and/or numbers be less than 1/16 inch in height unless an exemption pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section is established. the requirements for conspicuousness and legibility shall include the specifications of  501.15 and 501.105(h) (1) and (2). 
(1) packaged foods are exempt from the type size requirements of this paragraph: provided, that: 
(i) the package is designed such that it has a surface area that can bear an information panel and/or an alternate principal display panel. 
(ii) the area of surface available for labeling on the principal display panel of the package as this term is defined in  501.1 is less than 10 square inches. 
(iii) the label information includes a full list of ingredients in accordance with regulations in this part. 
(iv) the information required by paragraph (b) of this section appears on the principal display panel or information panel label in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (c) except that the type size is not less than 3/64 inch in height. 
(2) packaged foods are exempt from the type size requirements of this paragraph: provided, that: 
(i) the package is designed such that it has a single obvious principal display panel as this term is defined in  501.1 and has no other available surface area for an information panel or alternate principal display panel. 
(ii) the area of surface available for labeling on the principal display panel of the package as this term is defined in  501.1 is less than 12 square inches and bears all labeling appearing on the package. 
(iii) the label information includes a full list of ingredients in accordance with regulations in this part. 
(iv) the information required by paragraph (b) of this section appears on the single, obvious principal display panel in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (c) except that the type size is not less than 1/32 inch in height. 
(3) packaged foods are exempt from the type size requirements of this paragraph: provided, that: 
(i) the package is designed such that it has a total surface area available to bear labeling of less than 12 square inches. 
(ii) the label information includes a full list of ingredients in accordance with regulations in this part. 
(iii) the information required by paragraph (b) of this section appears on the principal display panel or information panel label in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (c) except that the type size is not less than 1/32 inch in height. 
(d) all information required to appear on the principal display panel or on the information panel pursuant to this section shall appear on the same panel unless there is insufficient space. in determining the sufficiency of the available space, any vignettes, design, and other nonmandatory label information shall not be considered. if there is insufficient space for all of this information to appear on a single panel, it may be divided between these two panels except that the information required pursuant to any given section or part shall all appear on the same panel. a food whose label is required to bear the ingredient statement on the principal display panel may bear all other information specified in paragraph (b) of this section on the information panel. 
(e) all information appearing on the information panel pursuant to this section shall appear in one place without other intervening material. 
(f) if the label of any package of food is too small to accommodate all of the information required by  501.4, 501.5, 501.8, and 501.17, the commissioner may establish by regulation an acceptable alternative method of disseminating such information to the public, e.g., a type size smaller than one-sixteenth inch in height, or labeling attached to or inserted in the package or available at the point of purchase. a petition requesting such a regulation, as an amendment to this paragraph shall be submitted pursuant to part 10 of this chapter. 

