" 510.110 
antibiotics used in food-producing animals. 
(a) the food and drug administration in the interest of fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to protection of the public health has requested an evaluation of the public health aspects of the use of antibiotics in veterinary medical and nonmedical uses. there is particular concern with regard to the potential hazards associated with the extensive use of antibiotics administered to food-producing animals. accordingly, an ad hoc committee on the veterinary medical and nonmedical uses of antibiotics was established by the food and drug administration to study and advise the commissioner of food and drugs on the uses of antibiotics in veterinary medicine and for various nonmedical purposes as such uses may affect the enforcement of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act with respect to their safety and effectiveness. 
(b) based upon an evaluation of the conclusions of said committee and other relevant material,  510.112 was published in the federal register of august 23, 1966 (31 fr 11141), asking sponsors of drugs containing any antibiotic intended for use in food-producing animals to submit data to establish whether such antibiotic and its metabolites are present as residues in edible tissues, milk, and eggs from treated animals. the data on the residues of antibiotics in milk from intramammary infusion preparations were requested within 60 days and the data on all other products were requested within 180 days following the date of publication of  510.112 in the federal register. 
(c) an evaluation of the data now available shows that use of many antibiotic preparations cause residues in edible products of treated animals for varying and, in some cases, for long periods of time following the last administration. because of the accumulation of new information with regard to the development of resistance of bacteria to antibiotics, the ability of bacteria to transfer this resistance, and the development of sensitivity to antibiotics in humans, unauthorized and unsafe residues of antibiotics cannot be permitted in food obtained from treated animals. 
(d) based on evaluation of information available, including the conclusions of the aforementioned ad hoc committee, the commissioner concludes that antibiotic preparations intended for use in food-producing animals, other than topical and ophthalmic preparations, are not generally recognized among qualified experts as having been shown to be safe for their intended use(s) within the meaning of section 201(s) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. 
(e) therefore, all exemptions from the provisions of section 409 of the act for use of antibiotics in food-producing animals based on sanctions or approvals granted prior to enactment of the food additives amendment of 1958 (pub. l. 85-929; 72 stat. 1784) will be revoked and the uses which are concluded to be safe will be covered by food additive regulations. on those products for which there are inadequate residue data, actions will be initiated to withdraw approval of new-drug applications under the provisions of section 505 of the act. antibiotic preparations, other than those for topical and ophthalmic application in food-producing animals, which are not covered by food additive regulations will be subject to regulatory action within 180 days after publication of the forthcoming revocation order. 
(f) because of the variation in the period of time that antibiotic residues may remain in edible products from treated animals, all injectable, intramammary infusion, intrauterine, and oral preparations, including medicated premixes intended for use in food-producing animals, are deemed to be new drugs as well as food additives. 

