" 514.200 
contents of notice of opportunity for a hearing. 
(a) the notice to the applicant of opportunity for a hearing on a proposal by the commissioner to refuse to approve an application or to withdraw the approval of an application will specify the grounds upon which he proposes to issue his order. on request of the applicant, the commissioner will explain the reasons for his action. the notice of opportunity for a hearing will be published in the federal register and will specify that the applicant has 30 days after issuance of the notice within which he is required to file a written appearance electing whether: 
(1) to avail himself of the opportunity for a hearing; or 
(2) not to avail himself of the opportunity for a hearing. 
(b) if the applicant fails to file a written appearance in answer to the notice of opportunity for hearing, his failure will be construed as an election not to avail himself of the opportunity for the hearing, and the commissioner without further notice may enter a final order. 
(c) if the applicant elects to avail himself of the opportunity for a hearing, he is required to file a written appearance requesting the hearing within 30 days after the publication of the notice, giving the reason why the application should not be refused or should not be withdrawn, together with a well-organized and full-factual analysis of the clinical and other investigational data he is prepared to prove in support of his opposition to the commissioner's proposal. a request for a hearing may not rest upon mere allegations or denials, but must set forth specific facts showing there is a genuine and substantial issue of fact that requires a hearing. when it clearly appears from the data in the application and from the reasons and a factual analysis in the request for the hearing that no genuine and substantial issue of fact precludes the refusal to approve the application or the withdrawal of approval of the application (for example, no adequate and well-controlled clinical investigations to support the claims of effectiveness have been identified), the commissioner will enter an order on this data, stating his findings and conclusions. if a hearing is requested and is justified by the applicant's response to the notice of opportunity for a hearing, the issues will be defined, an administrative law judge will be named, and he shall issue a written notice of the time and place at which the hearing will commence. in the case of denial of approval, such time shall be not more than 90 days after the expiration of such 30 days unless the administrative law judge and the applicant otherwise agree; and, in the case of withdrawal of approval, such time shall be as soon as practicable. 
(d) the hearing will be open to the public; however, if the commissioner finds that portions of the application which serve as a basis for the hearing contain information concerning a method or process entitled to protection as a trade secret, the part of the hearing involving such portions will not be public, unless the respondent so specifies in his appearance. 

