" 520.443 
chlortetracycline tablets and boluses. 
(a) specifications. each tablet/bolus contains 25, 250, or 500 milligrams (mg) chlortetracycline hydrochloride. 
(b) sponsor. see no. 054628 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(c) related tolerances. see  556.150 of this chapter. 
(d) conditions of use in calves (1) amount. one 250 milligram bolus per 50 pounds of body weight twice a day for 3 to 5 days. 
(i) indications for use. treatment of bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by escherichia coli and bacterial pneumonia associated with pasteurella spp., klesbsiella spp., and hemophilus spp. 
(ii) limitations. administer bolus directly by mouth or crush and dissolve in milk or water for drenching or bucket feeding; if no improvement is noted after 3 days of treatment, consult a veterinarian; do not use for more than 5 days; do not administer within 24 hours of slaughter. 
(2) amount. one 25 milligram tablet for each 5 pounds of body weight every 12 hours daily for 3 to 5 days. 
(i) indications for use. control and treatment of bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by e. coli and salmonella spp. and bacterial pneumonia associated with pasteurella spp., hemophilus spp., and klebsiella spp., susceptible to chlortetracycline. 
(ii) limitations. administer tablet directly by mouth or crush and dissolve in water for drenching; if no improvement is noted after 3 days of treatment, consult a veterinarian; do not use for more than 5 days; when feeding milk or milk replacer, administration 1 hour before or 2 hours after feeding; do not administer within 24 hours of slaughter. 
(3) amount. one 500 milligram bolus per 100 pounds of body weight twice a day for 3 to 5 days. 
(i) indications for use. treatment of bacterial enteritis (scours) caused by e. coli and salmonella spp., and bacterial pneumonia associated with pasteurella spp., hemophilus spp., and klebsiella spp., susceptible to chlortetracycline. 
(ii) limitations. administer directly by mouth or crush and dissolve in water for drenching; if no improvement is noted after 3 days of treatment, consult a veterinarian; do not use for more than 5 days; do not administer within 24 hours of slaughter. 

