" 520.420 
chlorothiazide tablets and boluses. 
(a)(1) specifications. each tablet contains 0.25 gram of chlorothiazide. 
(2) sponsor. see no. 050604 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(3) conditions of use (i) amount. usual dosage is 5 to 10 milligrams per pound of body weight two or three times daily. 
(ii) indications for use. for use in dogs for treatment of congestive heart failure and renal edema. 
(iii) limitations. (a ) dosage must be adjusted to meet the changing needs of the individual animal. in mild and responsive cases, it is suggested that a dose of 5 milligrams per pound of body weight be administered two or three times daily. in moderately edematous and moderately responsive animals, a dose of 7.5 to 10 milligrams per pound of body weight may be administered three times daily. severe conditions may require higher doses. certain animals may respond adequately to intermittent therapy; in these cases, the drug may be administered either every other day or for 3 to 5 days each week. 
) animals should be regularly and carefully observed for early signs of fluid and electrolyte imbalance. take appropriate countermeasures if this should occur. in some dogs, hypochloremic alkalosis may occur (that is, excretion of chloride in relation to sodium is excessive; the plasma bicarbonate level increases and alkalosis results). federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. 
(b)(1) specifications. each bolus contains 2 grams of chlorothiazide. 
(2) sponsor. see no. 000006 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(3) conditions of use (i) amount. 2 grams once or twice daily for 3 or 4 days. 
(ii) indications for use. for use in cattle as an aid in reduction of postparturient udder edema. 
(iii) limitations. animals should be regularly and carefully observed for early signs of fluid and electrolyte imbalance. take appropriate countermeasures if this should occur. milk taken from dairy animals during treatment and for 72 hours (six milkings) after latest treatment must not be used for food. federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. 

