" 522.2630 
tulathromycin. 
(a) specifications. each milliliter of solution contains: 
(1) 100 milligrams (mg) tulathromycin 
(2) 25 mg tulathromycin 
(b) sponsor. see no. 054771 in  510.600(c) of this chapter for use as in paragraph (d) of this section: 
(1) product described as in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for use as in paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii), (d)(1)(iii)(a), and (d)(2) of this section. 
(2) product described as in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for use as in paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii)(b), (d)(1)(iii)(b), and (d)(2) of this section. 
(c) related tolerances. see  556.745 of this chapter. 
(d) conditions of use (1) cattle (i) amount. 2.5 mg per kilogram (/kg) body weight as a single subcutaneous injection in the neck. 
(ii) indications for use (a) beef and non-lactating dairy cattle. for the treatment of bovine respiratory disease (brd) associated with mannheimia haemolytica, pasteurella multocida, histophilus somni, and mycoplasma bovis. for the control of respiratory disease in cattle at high risk of developing brd associated with m. haemolytica, p. multocida, h. somni, and m. bovis. for the treatment of infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis (ibk) associated with moraxella bovis. for the treatment of bovine foot rot (interdigital necrobacillosis) associated with fusobacterium necrophorum and porphyromonas levii. 
(b) suckling calves, dairy calves, and veal calves. for the treatment of bovine respiratory disease (brd) associated with mannheimia haemolytica, pasteurella multocida, histophilus somni, and mycoplasma bovis. 
(iii) limitations. (a) cattle intended for human consumption must not be slaughtered within 18 days from the last treatment. do not use in female dairy cattle 20 months of age or older. federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. 
(b) calves intended for human consumption must not be slaughtered within 22 days from the last treatment. not for use in ruminating cattle. federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. 
(2) swine (i) amount. 2.5 mg/kg body weight as a single intramuscular injection in the neck. 
(ii) indications for use. for the treatment of swine respiratory disease (srd) associated with actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae p. multocida bordetella bronchiseptica haemophilus parasuis , and mycoplasma hyopneumoniae ; and for the control of srd associated with a. pleuropneumoniae p. multocida , and m. hyopneumoniae in groups of pigs where srd has been diagnosed. 
(iii) limitations. swine intended for human consumption must not be slaughtered within 5 days from the last treatment. federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. 

