" 522.2120 
spectinomycin dihydrochloride injection. 
(a) specifications. the spectinomycin dihydrochloride pentahydrate used in manufacturing the drug is the antibiotic substance produced by the growth of streptomyces flavopersicus (var. abbott) or the same antibiotic substance produced by any other means. each milliliter of the drug contains the following amount of spectinomycin activity from spectinomycin dihydrochloride pentahydrate: 
(1) 5 milligrams when used as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. 
(2) [reserved] 
(3) 100 milligrams when used as provided in paragraphs (d) (2), (3), and (4) of this section. 
(b) sponsor. in  510.600 of this chapter, see no. 000859 for conditions of use as in paragraph (d) of this section, and see no. 054771 for conditions of use as in paragraph (d)(2) and (d)(4) of this section. 
(c) special considerations. the quantity of spectinomycin referred to in this section refers to the equivalent weight of base activity for the drug. 
(d) conditions of use. it is administered as spectinomycin dihydrochloride pentahydrate as follows: 
(1) subcutaneously in the treatment of 1-to-3-day-old turkey poults at the rate of 1 to 2 milligrams per poult as an aid in the prevention of mortality associated with arizona group infection. 
(2) subcutaneously in the treatment of 1-to-3-day old: 
(i) turkey poults at the rate of 5 milligrams per poult as an aid in the control of chronic respiratory disease (crd) associated with e. coli. 
(ii) baby chicks at the rate of 2.5 to 5 milligrams per chick as an aid in the control of mortality and to lessen severity of infections caused by m. synoviae, s. typhimurium, s. infantis, and e. coli. 
(3) intramuscularly in the treatment of dogs: 
(i) at a dosage level of 2.5 milligrams to 5.0 milligrams per pound of body weight twice daily. treatment may be continued for 4 days. for treatment of infections caused by gram-negative and gram-positive organisms susceptible to spectinomycin. 
(ii) federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. 
(4) administer single injection of 0.1 milliliter (10 milligrams) subcutaneously in nape of neck of 1- to 3-day-old turkey poults as an aid in control of airsacculitis associated with m. meleagridis sensitive to spectinomycin. 

