" 524.770 
doramectin. 
(a) specifications. each milliliter (ml) of solution contains 5 milligrams (mg) doramectin. 
(b) sponsor. see no. 054771 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(c) related tolerances. see  556.225 of this chapter. 
(d) special considerations. see  500.25 of this chapter. 
(e) conditions of use in cattle (1) amount. administer topically as a single dose 0.5 mg (1 ml) per kilogram (1 ml per 22 pounds) body weight. 
(2) indications for use. for treatment and control of gastrointestinal roundworms: ostertagia ostertagi (adults and fourth-stage larvae), ostertagia ostertagi (inhibited fourth-stage larvae), ostertagia lyrata (adults), haemonchus placei (adults and fourth-stage larvae), trichostrongylus axei (adults and fourth-stage larvae), trichostrongylus colubriformis (adults and fourth-stage larvae), cooperia oncophora (adults and fourth-stage larvae), cooperia punctata (adults and fourth-stage larvae), cooperia pectinata (adults), cooperia surnabada (adults), bunostomum phlebotomum (adults), oesophagostomum radiatum (adults and fourth-stage larvae), trichuris spp. (adults); lungworms: dictyocaulus viviparus (adults and fourth-stage larvae); eyeworms: thelazia gulosa (adults), thelazia skrjabini (adults); grubs: hypoderma bovis and hypoderma lineatum ; sucking lice: linognathus vituli haematopinus eurysternus , and solenopotes capillatus ; biting lice: bovicola (damalinia) bovis ; mange mites: chorioptes bovis and sarcoptes scabiei ; horn flies: haematobia irritans ; and to control infections and to protect from reinfection with cooperia oncophora dictyocaulus viviparus ostertagia ostertagi , and oesophagostomum radiatum for 28 days; and with cooperia punctata and haemonchus placei for 35 days after treatment; and to control infestations and to protect from reinfestation with linognathus vituli for 42 days and with bovicola (damalinia) bovis for 77 days after treatment. 
(3) limitations. do not slaughter cattle within 45 days of latest treatment. this product is not approved for use in female dairy cattle 20 months of age or older, including dry dairy cows. use in these cattle may cause drug residues in milk and/or in calves born to these cows. a withdrawal period has not been established for this product in preruminating calves. do not use in calves to be processed for veal. 

