" 529.1150 
hydrogen peroxide. 
(a) specifications. each milliliter of solution contains 396.1 milligrams (mg) hydrogen peroxide (a 35% w/w solution). 
(b) sponsor. see no. 050378 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(c) conditions of use in finfish (1) amount (i) freshwater-reared finfish eggs: 500 to 1,000 mg per liter (/l) of culture water for 15 minutes in a continuous flow system once per day on consecutive or alternate days until hatch for all coldwater and coolwater species of freshwater-reared finfish eggs or 750 to 1,000 mg/l for 15 minutes in a continuous flow system once per day on consecutive or alternate days until hatch for all warmwater species of freshwater-reared finfish eggs. 
(ii) freshwater-reared salmonids: 100 mg/l for 30 minutes or 50 to 100 mg/l for 60 minutes once per day on alternate days for three treatments in a continuous flow water supply or as a static bath. 
(iii) coolwater species of freshwater-reared finfish fingerlings and adults (except northern pike & paddlefish) and channel catfish fingerlings and adults: 50 to 75 mg/l for 60 minutes once per day on alternate days for three treatments in continuous flow water supply or as a static bath. coolwater species of freshwater-reared finfish fry (except northern pike, pallid sturgeon & paddlefish) and channel catfish fry: 50 mg/l for 60 minutes once per day on alternate days for three treatments in continuous flow water supply or as a static bath. 
(2) indications for use. for control of mortality in freshwater-reared finfish eggs due to saprolegniasis; for control of mortality in freshwater-reared salmonids due to bacterial gill disease associated with flavobacterium branchiophilum ; and for control of mortality in freshwater-reared coolwater finfish and channel catfish due to external columnaris disease associated with flavobacterium columnare flexibacter columnaris ). 
(3) limitations. initial bioassay on a small number is recommended before treating the entire group. eggs: some strains of rainbow trout eggs are sensitive to hydrogen peroxide treatment at a time during incubation concurrent with blastopore formation through closure, about 70 to 140 daily temperature units, c. consider withholding treatment or using an alternate therapeutant during that sensitive time to reduce egg mortalities due to drug toxicity. finfish: use with caution on walleye. preharvest withdrawal time: zero days. 

