" 529.1940 
progesterone intravaginal inserts. 
(a) specifications. each insert contains: 
(1) 1.38 grams (g) progesterone in molded silicone over a nylon spine. 
(2) 0.3 g progesterone in molded silicone over a flexible nylon spine. 
(b) sponsor. see no. 054771 in  510.600(c) of this chapter for use of the product described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as in paragraph (e)(1) of this section; and the product described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section as in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. 
(c) related tolerances. see  556.540 of this chapter. 
(d) special considerations. product labeling shall bear the following warning: avoid contact with skin by wearing protective gloves when handling inserts. store removed inserts in a sealable container until they can be disposed of in accordance with applicable local, state, and federal regulations. 
(e) conditions of use (1) cows (i) amount. administer one intravaginal insert per animal for 7 days. when used for indications listed in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(a) of this section, administer 25 mg dinoprost as a single intramuscular injection 1 day prior to insert removal (day 6). when used for indications listed in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(b) of this section, administer 25 mg dinoprost as a single intramuscular injection on the day of insert removal (day 7). 
(ii) indications for use (a) for synchronization of estrus in suckled beef cows and replacement beef and dairy heifers; for advancement of first postpartum estrus in suckled beef cows; and for advancement of first pubertal estrus in replacement beef heifers. 
(b) for synchronization of estrus in lactating dairy cows. 
(c) for synchronization of the return to estrus in lactating dairy cows inseminated at the immediately preceding estrus. 
(d) for induction of estrous cycles in anestrous lactating dairy cows. 
(iii) limitations. do not use in beef or dairy heifers of insufficient size or age for breeding or in animals with abnormal, immature, or infected genital tracts. do not use in beef cows that are fewer than 20 days postpartum. do not use an insert more than once. to prevent the potential transmission of venereal and bloodborne diseases, the inserts should be disposed after a single use. administration of vaginal inserts for periods greater than 7 days may result in reduced fertility. dinoprost injection for use in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii)(a) and (e)(1)(ii)(b) of this section as in  522.690 of this chapter, provided by no. 054771 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(2) ewes (i) amount. administer one intravaginal insert per animal for 5 days. 
(ii) indications for use. for induction of estrus in ewes (sheep) during seasonal anestrus. 
(iii) limitations. do not use in animals with abnormal, immature, or infected genital tracts; or in ewes that have never lambed. do not use an insert more than once. to prevent the potential transmission of venereal and bloodborne diseases, the inserts should be disposed after a single use. 

