" 54.4 
certification and disclosure requirements. 
for purposes of this part, an applicant must submit a list of all clinical investigators who conducted covered clinical studies to determine whether the applicant's product meets fda's marketing requirements, identifying those clinical investigators who are full-time or part-time employees of the sponsor of each covered study. the applicant must also completely and accurately disclose or certify information concerning the financial interests of a clinical investigator who is not a full-time or part-time employee of the sponsor for each covered clinical study. clinical investigators subject to investigational new drug or investigational device exemption regulations must provide the sponsor of the study with sufficient accurate information needed to allow subsequent disclosure or certification. the applicant is required to submit for each clinical investigator who participates in a covered study, either a certification that none of the financial arrangements described in  54.2 exist, or disclose the nature of those arrangements to the agency. where the applicant acts with due diligence to obtain the information required in this section but is unable to do so, the applicant shall certify that despite the applicant's due diligence in attempting to obtain the information, the applicant was unable to obtain the information and shall include the reason. 
(a) the applicant (of an application submitted under sections 505, 506, 510(k), 513, or 515 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or section 351 of the public health service act) that relies in whole or in part on clinical studies shall submit, for each clinical investigator who participated in a covered clinical study, either a certification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or a disclosure statement described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. 
(1) certification: the applicant covered by this section shall submit for all clinical investigators (as defined in  54.2(d)), to whom the certification applies, a completed form fda 3454 attesting to the absence of financial interests and arrangements described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. the form shall be dated and signed by the chief financial officer or other responsible corporate official or representative. 
(2) if the certification covers less than all covered clinical data in the application, the applicant shall include in the certification a list of the studies covered by this certification. 
(3) disclosure statement: for any clinical investigator defined in  54.2(d) for whom the applicant does not submit the certification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the applicant shall submit a completed form fda 3455 disclosing completely and accurately the following: 
(i) any financial arrangement entered into between the sponsor of the covered study and the clinical investigator involved in the conduct of a covered clinical trial, whereby the value of the compensation to the clinical investigator for conducting the study could be influenced by the outcome of the study; 
(ii) any significant payments of other sorts from the sponsor of the covered study, such as a grant to fund ongoing research, compensation in the form of equipment, retainer for ongoing consultation, or honoraria; 
(iii) any proprietary interest in the tested product held by any clinical investigator involved in a study; 
(iv) any significant equity interest in the sponsor of the covered study held by any clinical investigator involved in any clinical study; and 
(v) any steps taken to minimize the potential for bias resulting from any of the disclosed arrangements, interests, or payments. 
(b) the clinical investigator shall provide to the sponsor of the covered study sufficient accurate financial information to allow the sponsor to submit complete and accurate certification or disclosure statements as required in paragraph (a) of this section. the investigator shall promptly update this information if any relevant changes occur in the course of the investigation or for 1 year following completion of the study. 
(c) refusal to file application. fda may refuse to file any marketing application described in paragraph (a) of this section that does not contain the information required by this section or a certification by the applicant that the applicant has acted with due diligence to obtain the information but was unable to do so and stating the reason. 

