" 558.265 
halofuginone. 
(a) specifications. type a medicated articles containing 6 grams of halofuginone hydrobromide per kilogram. 
(b) approvals. see no. 016592 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(c) related tolerances. see  556.308 of this chapter. 
(d) conditions of use. (1) it is used in feed for broiler chickens as follows: 
(i) amount. 2.72 grams per ton. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. brunetti, e. mivati, and e. maxima. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration; withdraw 4 days before slaughter; do not feed to layers; avoid contact with skin, eyes, or clothing; keep out of lakes, ponds, or streams. 
(ii) amount per ton. halofuginone 2.72 grams (0.0003 percent) plus bambermycins 1 to 2 grams. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. brunetti, e. mivati, and e. maxima; for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration; withdraw 5 days before slaughter; do not feed to layers. 
(iii) amount per ton. halofuginone 2.72 grams (0.0003 percent) plus virginiamycin 5 grams. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. brunetti, e. mivati, and e. maxima; for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration; withdraw 6 days before slaughter; do not feed to layers. 
(iv) amount per ton. halofuginone 2.72 grams (0.0003 percent) plus virginiamycin 5 to 15 grams. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. brunetti, e. mevati, and e. maxima; for increased rate of weight gain. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration; withdraw 6 days before slaughter; do not feed to layers. 
(v) [reserved] 
(vi) amount per ton. halofuginone 2.72 grams (0.0003 percent) plus bacitracin methylene disalicylate 10 to 50 grams. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. brunetti, e. mevati, e. maxima and for improved feed efficiency. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration; withdraw 5 days before slaughter; do not feed to layers; avoid contact with skin, eyes, or clothing; keep out of lakes, ponds, or streams. 
(vii) amount per ton. halofuginone 2.72 grams (0.0003 percent) plus lincomycin 2 to 4 grams. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. brunetti, e. mivati, and e. maxima and for improved feed efficiency. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration; withdraw 4 days before slaughter; do not feed to layers; avoid contact with skin, eyes, or clothing; keep out of lakes, ponds, or streams. 
(viii) [reserved] 
(2) it is used in feed for turkeys as follows: 
(i) amount per ton. 1.36 to 2.72 grams. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis in growing turkeys caused by eimeria adenoeides, e. meleagrimitis, and e. gallopavonis. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration; withdraw 7 days before slaughter; do not feed to layers or water fowl; avoid contact with skin, eyes, or clothing; keep out of lakes, ponds, or streams. 
(ii) amount per ton. halofuginone hydrobromide 1.36 to 2.72 grams plus bacitracin methylene disalicylate 10 to 50 grams. 
(a) indications for use. for prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria adenoeides, e. meleagrimitis. , and e. gallopavonis, and for increased rate of weight gain in growing turkeys. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration. withdraw 7 days before slaughter. do not feed to laying chickens or water fowl. keep out of lakes, ponds, and streams. halofuginone is toxic to fish and aquatic life. halofuginone is an irritant to eyes and skin. avoid contact with skin, eyes, or clothing. 
(iii) amount per ton. 1.36 to 2.72 grams of halofuginone hydrobromide plus 2 grams of bambermycins. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria adenoides, e. meleagrimitis, and e. gallopavonis, and for increased rate of weight gain in growing turkeys. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration. withdraw 7 days before slaughter. do not feed to laying chickens or waterfowl. halofuginone hydrobromide is toxic to fish and other aquatic life. keep out of lakes, ponds, and streams. halofuginone hydrobromide is an eye and skin irritant. avoid contact with skin, eyes, and clothing. 
(3) it is used in feed for replacement cage laying chickens and replacement broiler breeder chickens as follows: 
(i) amount per ton. 2.72 grams. 
(a) indications for use. for the prevention of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. maxima, e. mivati e. mitis, and e. brunetti. 
(b) limitations. feed continuously as sole ration to replacement cage laying chickens until 20 weeks of age. feed continuously as sole ration to replacement broiler breeder chickens until 16 weeks of age. withdraw 4 days before slaughter. do not feed to laying chickens or water fowl. halofuginone hydrobromide is toxic to fish and aquatic life. keep out of lakes, ponds, and streams. halofuginone hydrobromide is an irritant to eyes and skin. avoid contact with skin, eyes, and clothing. 
(ii) [reserved] 

