" 558.586 
sulfaquinoxaline. 
(a) specifications. type a medicated articles containing 40 percent sulfaquinoxaline. 
(b) approvals. see no. 000859 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(c) special considerations. (1) for control of outbreaks of disease, medication should be initiated as soon as the diagnosis is determined. medicated chickens, turkeys, and rabbits must actually consume enough medicated feed which provides a recommended dose of approximately 3.5 to 60 milligrams per pound per day in chickens, 2.5 to 100 milligrams per pound per day in turkeys, and 2.8 to 68 milligrams per pound per day in rabbits depending upon age and class of animal, ambient temperature, and other factors. consult a veterinarian or poultry pathologist for diagnosis. 
(2) [reserved] 
(d) conditions of use. it is used as follows: 
(1) chickens (i) amount. 0.015 percent. 
indications for use. as an aid in preventing outbreaks of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. brunetti under average conditions of exposure. 
limitations. feed continuously from the time birds are placed on litter and continue past the age when coccidiosis is ordinarily a hazard. if death losses exceed 0.5 percent in a 2-day period, obtain a laboratory diagnosis. if coccidiosis is the cause, use the sulfaquinoxaline levels recommended for control of outbreaks, returning to the original dosage schedule after the outbreak has subsided. losses may result from intercurrent disease, other conditions affecting drug intake, or variant strains of coccidia species which can contribute to the virulence of coccidiosis under field conditions. do not treat chickens within 10 days of slaughter. do not medicate chickens producing eggs for human consumption. 
(ii) amount. 0.0175 percent. 
indications for use. as an aid in preventing outbreaks of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. brunetti where excessive exposure to coccidia is increased due to overcrowding or other management factors. 
limitations. feed continuously from the time birds are placed on litter and continue past the age when coccidiosis is ordinarily a hazard. if death losses exceed 0.5 percent in a 2-day period, obtain a laboratory diagnosis. if coccidiosis is the cause, use the sulfaquinoxaline levels recommended for control of outbreaks, returning to the original dosage schedule after the outbreak has subsided. losses may result from intercurrent disease, other conditions affecting drug intake, or variant strains of coccidia species which can contribute to the virulence of coccidiosis under field conditions. do not treat chickens within 10 days of slaughter. do not medicate chickens producing eggs for human consumption. 
(iii) amount. 0.1 to 0.05 percent. 
indications for use. as an aid in controlling outbreaks of coccidiosis caused by eimeria tenella, e. necatrix, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. brunetti. 
limitations. feed at 0.1 percent level for first 48 to 72 hours. skip 3 days; 0.05 percent for 2 days, skip 3 days; 0.05 percent for 2 days. if bloody droppings recur, give 0.05 percent for another 2 days. do not treat chickens within 10 days of slaughter. do not medicate chickens producing eggs for human consumption. 
(2) turkeys (i) amount. 0.0175 percent. 
indications for use. as an aid in preventing outbreaks of coccidiosis caused by eimeria meleagrimitis and e. adenoeides. 
limitations. feed 0.0175 percent continuously during time birds are closely confined. may be continued for week to 10 days after flock is transferred to range to reduce danger of an outbreak following moving of the flock. do not treat turkeys within 10 days of slaughter. do not medicate turkeys producing eggs for human consumption. 
(ii) amount. 0.05 percent. 
indications for use. as an aid in controlling outbreaks of coccidiosis caused by eimeria meleagrimitis, and e. adenoeides. 
limitations. feed 0.05 percent for 2 days. follow with 3 days on regular feed and 2 more days on 0.05 percent sulfaquinoxaline feed. again follow with 3 days on regular feed and 2 more days on 0.05 percent sulfaquinoxaline feed. continue this schedule if necessary till all signs of the outbreaks have subsided. do not treat turkeys within 10 days of slaughter. do not medicate turkeys producing eggs for human consumption. 
(3) chickens and turkeys (i) amount. 0.05 or 0.1 percent. 
indications for use. as an aid in the control of acute fowl cholera caused by pasteurella multocida susceptible to sulfaquinoxaline and fowl typhoid caused by salmonella gallinarum susceptible to sulfaquinoxaline. 
limitations. feed 0.1 percent for 48 to 72 hours. mortality should be brought under control. after medication, move birds to clean ground or to a clean house. if disease recurs, use 0.05 percent in feed again for 2 days. do not treat chickens or turkeys within 10 days of slaughter for food. do not medicate chickens or turkeys producing eggs for human consumption. 
(ii) [reserved] 
(4) rabbits (i) amount. 0.025 percent. 
$( indications for use. as an aid in preventing coccidiosis caused by eimeria stiedae. 
$( limitations. treatment to be started after weaning. feed continuously for 30 days or feed medicated feed for 2 days out of every week until marketing. do not treat within 10 days of slaughter. 
(ii) amount. 0.1 percent. 
indications for use. as an aid in controlling outbreaks of coccidiosis caused by eimeria stiedae. 
$( limitations. feed for 2 weeks. do not treat within 10 days of slaughter. 

