" 558.3 
definitions and general considerations applicable to this part. 
(a) regulations in this part provide for approved uses of drugs and combinations of drugs in animal feeds. approved combinations of such drugs are specifically identified or incorporated by cross-reference. unless specifically provided for by the regulations, a combination of two or more drugs is not approved. 
(b) the following definitions apply to terms used in this part: 
(1) new animal drugs approved for use in animal feed are placed in two categories as follows: 
(i) category ithese drugs require no withdrawal period at the lowest use level in each species for which they are approved. 
(ii) category iithese drugs require a withdrawal period at the lowest use level for at least one species for which they are approved, or are regulated on a no-residue basis or with a zero tolerance because of a carcinogenic concern regardless of whether a withdrawal period is required, or are a veterinary feed directive drug. 
(2) a type a medicated article is intended solely for use in the manufacture of another type a medicated article or a type b or type c medicated feed. it consists of a new animal drug(s), with or without carrier (e.g., calcium carbonate, rice hull, corn, gluten) with or without inactive ingredients. the manufacture of a type a medicated article requires an application approved under  514.105 of this chapter or an index listing granted under  516.151 of this chapter. 
(3) a type b medicated feed is intended solely for the manufacture of other medicated feeds (type b or type c). it contains a substantial quantity of nutrients including vitamins and/or minerals and/or other nutritional ingredients in an amount not less than 25 percent of the weight. it is manufactured by diluting a type a medicated article or another type b medicated feed. the maximum concentration of animal drug(s) in a type b medicated feed is 200 times the highest continuous use level for category i drugs and 100 times the highest continuous use level for category ii drugs. the term highest continuous use level means the highest dosage at which the drug is approved for continuous use (14 days or more), or, if the drug is not approved for continuous use, it means the highest level used for disease prevention or control. if the drug is approved for multiple species at different use levels, the highest approved level of use would govern under this definition. the manufacture of a type b medicated feed from a category ii, type a medicated article requires a medicated feed mill license application approved under  515.20 of this chapter. 
(4) a type c medicated feed is intended as the complete feed for the animal or may be fed top dressed (added on top of usual ration) on or offered free-choice (e.g., supplement) in conjunction with other animal feed. it contains a substantial quantity of nutrients including vitamins, minerals, and/or other nutritional ingredients. it is manufactured by diluting a type a medicated article or a type b medicated feed. a type c medicated feed may be further diluted to produce another type c medicated feed. the manufacture of a type c medicated feed from a category ii, type a medicated article requires a medicated feed mill license application approved under  515.20 of this chapter. 
(5) a type b or type c medicated feed manufactured from a drug component (bulk or drum-run (dried crude fermentation product)) requires an application approved under  514.105 of this chapter or an index listing granted under  516.151 of this chapter. 
(6) a veterinary feed directive (vfd) drug is a new animal drug approved under section 512(b) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (the act) or listed in the index under section 572 of the act for use in or on animal feed. use of a vfd drug must be under the professional supervision of a licensed veterinarian. 
(7) a veterinary feed directive is a written statement issued by a licensed veterinarian in the course of the veterinarian's professional practice that orders the use of a vfd drug in or on an animal feed. this written statement authorizes the client (the owner of the animal or animals or other caretaker) to obtain and use the vfd drug in or on an animal feed to treat the client's animals only in accordance with the directions for use approved or indexed by the food and drug administration (fda). a veterinarian may issue a vfd only if a valid veterinarian-client-patient relationship exists, as defined in  530.3(i) of this chapter. 
(8) a medicated feed means a type b medicated feed as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section or a type c medicated feed as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. 
(9) for the purposes of this part, a distributor means any person who distributes a medicated feed containing a vfd drug to another distributor or to the client-recipient of the vfd. 
(10) an animal production facility is a location where animals are raised for any purpose, but does not include the specific location where medicated feed is made. 
(11) an acknowledgment letter is a written communication provided to a distributor by a consignee who is not the ultimate user of medicated feed containing a vfd drug. an acknowledgment letter affirms that the consignee will not ship such medicated animal feed to an animal production facility that does not have a vfd, and will not ship such feed to another distributor without receiving a similar written acknowledgment letter. 

