" 558.515 
robenidine. 
(a) approvals. type a medicated articles: 30 grams per pound to 054771 in  510.600(c) of this chapter. 
(b) special considerations. type c feed containing robenidine hydrochloride must be fed within 50 days from the date of manufacture. do not use in type b or type c medicated feeds containing bentonite. 
(c) related tolerances. see  556.580 of this chapter. 
(d) conditions of use. it is used in feed for chickens as follows: 
robenidine hydrochloride in grams/ton combination in grams/ton indications for use limitations sponsor 30 (0.0033 pct) for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. feed continuously as sole ration. do not feed to layers. withdraw 5 days prior to slaughter. 054771 bacitracin (as bacitracin methylene disalicylate) 4 to 30 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. for increased rate of weight gain. feed continuously as sole ration. do not feed to laying chickens. withdraw 5 days prior to slaughter. 054771 bacitracin (as bacitracin methylene disalicylate) 27 to 50 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. for improved feed efficiency. feed continuously as sole ration. do not feed to laying chickens. withdraw 5 days prior to slaughter. 054771 bacitracin (as bacitracin methylene disalicylate) 50 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of necrotic enteritis caused or complicated by clostridium spp. or other organisms susceptible to bacitracin. feed continuously as sole ration. do not feed to laying hens. withdraw 5 days before slaughter. 054771 bacitracin (as bacitracin methylene disalicylate) 100 to 200 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the control of necrotic enteritis caused or complicated by clostridium spp. or other organisms susceptible to bacitracin. to control a necrotic enteritis outbreak, start medication at first clinical signs of disease; administer continuously for 5 to 7 days or as long as clinical signs persist, then reduce bacitracin methylene disalicylate to prevention level (50 g/ton). do not feed to laying hens. withdraw 5 days before slaughter. 054771 bacitracin (as bacitracin zinc) 4 to 30 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. for increased rate of weight gain. feed continuously as sole ration. do not feed to laying chickens. withdraw 5 days prior to slaughter. 054771 054771 bacitracin (as bacitracin zinc) 27 to 50 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. for improved feed efficiency. feed continuously as sole ration. do not feed to laying chickens. withdraw 5 days prior to slaughter. 054771 054771 chlortetracycline 100 to 200 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. for control of infectious synovitis caused by mycoplasma synoviae susceptible to chlortetracycline. feed continuously as sole ration up to 14 days. do not feed to chickens producing eggs for human consumption. withdraw 5 days prior to slaughter. chlortetracycline 200 to 400 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. for control of chronic respiratory disease (crd) and air sac infection caused by m. gallisepticum and e. coli susceptible to chlortetracycline. feed continuously as sole ration up to 14 days. do not feed to chickens producing eggs for human consumption. withdraw 5 days prior to slaughter. chlortetracycline 500 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. as an aid in the reduction of mortality due to e. coli susceptible to chlortetracycline. feed continuously as sole ration up to 5 days. do not feed to chickens producing eggs for human consumption. withdraw 5 days prior to slaughter. 054771 lincomycin 2 for broiler and fryer chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. for increase in rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency. feed continuously as the sole ration. do not feed to laying hens. withdraw 5 days before slaughter. 054771 oxytetracycline 400 for broiler chickens: as an aid in the prevention of coccidiosis caused by e. mivati, e. brunetti, e. tenella, e. acervulina, e. maxima, and e. necatrix. for control of crd and air sac infection caused by mycoplasma gallisepticum and e. coli susceptible to oxytetracycline. feed continuously for 7 to 14 days. do not feed to chickens producing eggs for human consumption. withdraw 5 days before slaughter. 066104 

editorial note: for federal register citations affecting  558.515, see the list of cfr sections affected, which appears in the finding aids section of the printed volume and at www.fdsys.gov.", 
