" 573.400 
ethoxyquin in certain dehydrated forage crops. 
ethoxyquin (1,2-dihydro-6-ethoxy-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline) may be safely used in the dehydrated forage crops listed in paragraph (a) of this section when incorporated therein in accordance with the conditions prescribed in this section: 
(a) it may be added to dehydrated forage prepared from: 
alfalfa medicago sativa. barley hordeum vulgare. clovers: alsike clover trifolium hybridum. crimson clover trifolium incarnatum. red clover trifolium pratense. white clover (including ladino) trifolium repens. white sweetclover melilotus alba. yellow sweetclover melilotus officinalis. coastal bermudagrass cynodon dactylon. corn zea mays. fescue festuca sp. oats avena sativa. orchardgrass dactylis glomerata. reed canarygrass pharlaris arundinacea. ryegrass (annual and perennial) elymus sp. and lolium perenne. sorghums sorghum vulgare vars, feterita, shallu, kaoliang, broomcorn. sudan grass sorghum vulgare sudanense. wheat triticum aestivum. 
or any mixture of such forage crops, for use only as an animal feed. 
(b) such additive is used only as a chemical preservative for the purpose of retarding oxidative destruction of naturally occurring carotenes and vitamin e in the forage crops. 
(c) it is added to the dehydrated forage crops in an oil mixture containing only suitable animal or suitable vegetable oil, prior to grinding and mixing. 
(d) the maximum quantity of the additive permitted to be used and to remain in or on the dehydrated forage crop shall not exceed 150 parts per million. 
(e) to assure the safe use of the additive, the label of the market package shall contain, in addition to other information required by the act: 
(1) the name of the additive as specified in this section. 
(2) directions for the incorporation of the additive in the forage crops, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, with the directive that only suitable animal or suitable vegetable oils are to be used in the oil mix. 
(f) the label of any dehydrated forage crops treated with the additive or the label of an animal-feed supplement containing such treated forage crops, shall, in addition to other information required by the act, bear the following statements: 
(1) ethoxyquin, a preservative, or ethoxyquin added to retard the oxidative destruction of carotene and vitamin e. 
(2) the statement for use in animal feed only.", 
