" 60.3 
definitions. 
(a) the definitions contained in 35 u.s.c. 156 apply to those terms when used in this part. 
(b) the following definitions of terms apply to this part: 
(1) the term act means the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (secs. 201-901, 52 stat. 1040 et seq. as amended (21 u.s.c. 301-392)). 
(2) active ingredient means any component that is intended to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or any function of the body of man or of animals. the term includes those components that may undergo chemical change in the manufacture of the drug product and be present in the drug product in a modified form intended to furnish the specified activity or effect. 
(3) applicant means any person who submits an application or an amendment or supplement to an application under 35 u.s.c. 156 seeking patent term restoration. 
(4) application means an application for patent term restoration submitted under 35 u.s.c. 156. 
(5) clinical investigation or study means any experiment that involves a test article and one or more subjects and that is either subject to requirements for prior submission to the food and drug administration under section 505(i), 512(j), or 520(g) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, or is not subject to the requirements for prior submission to fda under those sections of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, but the results of which are intended to be submitted later to, or held for inspection by, fda as part of an application for a research or marketing permit. the term does not include experiments that are subject to the provisions of part 58 regarding nonclinical laboratory studies. 
(6) color additive means any substance that meets the definition in section 201(t) of the act and which is subject to premarketing approval under section 721 of the act. 
(7) due diligence petition means a petition submitted under  60.30(a). 
(8) fda means the food and drug administration. 
(9) food additive means any substance that meets the definition in section 201(s) of the act and which is subject to premarketing approval under section 409 of the act. 
(10) human drug product means the active ingredient of a new drug or human biologic product (as those terms are used in the act and the public health service act), including any salt or ester of the active ingredient, as a single entity or in combination with another active ingredient. 
(11) marketing applicant means any person who submits an application for premarketing approval by fda under: 
(i) section 505(b) of the act or section 351 of the public health service act (human drug products); 
(ii) section 515 of the act (medical devices); 
(iii) section 409 or 721 of the act (food and color additives); or 
(iv) section 512 of the act (animal drug products). 
(12) marketing application means an application for: 
(i) human drug products submitted under section 505(b) of the act or section 351 of the public health service act; 
(ii) medical devices submitted under section 515 of the act; 
(iii) food and color additives submitted under section 409 or 721 of the act; or 
(iv) animal drug products submitted under section 512 of the act. 
(13) medical device means any article that meets the definition in section 201(h) of the act and which is subject to premarketing approval under section 515 of the act. 
(14) product means a human drug product, animal drug product, medical device, food additive, or color additive, as those terms are defined in this section. 
(15) pto means the united states patent and trademark office. 
(16) animal drug product means the active ingredient of a new animal drug (as that term is used in the act) that is not primarily manufactured using recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (dna), recombinant ribonucleic acid (rna), hybridoma technology, or other processes involving site-specific genetic manipulation techniques, including any salt or ester of the active ingredient, as a single entity or in combination with another active ingredient. 

