" 600.10 
personnel. 
(a) [reserved] 
(b) personnel. personnel shall have capabilities commensurate with their assigned functions, a thorough understanding of the manufacturing operations which they perform, the necessary training and experience relating to individual products, and adequate information concerning the application of the pertinent provisions of this subchapter to their respective functions. personnel shall include such professionally trained persons as are necessary to insure the competent performance of all manufacturing processes. 
(c) restrictions on personnel (1) specific duties. persons whose presence can affect adversely the safety and purity of a product shall be excluded from the room where the manufacture of a product is in progress. 
(2) sterile operations. personnel performing sterile operations shall wear clean or sterilized protective clothing and devices to the extent necessary to protect the product from contamination. 
(3) pathogenic viruses and spore-forming organisms. persons working with viruses pathogenic for man or with spore-forming microorganisms, and persons engaged in the care of animals or animal quarters, shall be excluded from areas where other products are manufactured, or such persons shall change outer clothing, including shoes, or wear protective covering prior to entering such areas. 
(4) live vaccine work areas. persons may not enter a live vaccine processing area after having worked with other infectious agents in any other laboratory during the same working day. only persons actually concerned with propagation of the culture, production of the vaccine, and unit maintenance, shall be allowed in live vaccine processing areas when active work is in progress. casual visitors shall be excluded from such units at all times and all others having business in such areas shall be admitted only under supervision. street clothing, including shoes, shall be replaced or covered by suitable laboratory clothing before entering a live vaccine processing unit. persons caring for animals used in the manufacture of live vaccines shall be excluded from other animal quarters and from contact with other animals during the same working day. 

