" 600.11 
physical establishment, equipment, animals, and care. 
(a) work areas. all rooms and work areas where products are manufactured or stored shall be kept orderly, clean, and free of dirt, dust, vermin and objects not required for manufacturing. precautions shall be taken to avoid clogging and back-siphonage of drainage systems. precautions shall be taken to exclude extraneous infectious agents from manufacturing areas. work rooms shall be well lighted and ventilated. the ventilation system shall be arranged so as to prevent the dissemination of microorganisms from one manufacturing area to another and to avoid other conditions unfavorable to the safety of the product. filling rooms, and other rooms where open, sterile operations are conducted, shall be adequate to meet manufacturing needs and such rooms shall be constructed and equipped to permit thorough cleaning and to keep air-borne contaminants at a minimum. if such rooms are used for other purposes, they shall be cleaned and prepared prior to use for sterile operations. refrigerators, incubators and warm rooms shall be maintained at temperatures within applicable ranges and shall be free of extraneous material which might affect the safety of the product. 
(b) equipment. apparatus for sterilizing equipment and the method of operation shall be such as to insure the destruction of contaminating microorganisms. the effectiveness of the sterilization procedure shall be no less than that achieved by an attained temperature of 121.5 c maintained for 20 minutes by saturated steam or by an attained temperature of 170 c maintained for 2 hours with dry heat. processing and storage containers, filters, filling apparatus, and other pieces of apparatus and accessory equipment, including pipes and tubing, shall be designed and constructed to permit thorough cleaning and, where possible, inspection for cleanliness. all surfaces that come in contact with products shall be clean and free of surface solids, leachable contaminants, and other materials that will hasten the deterioration of the product or otherwise render it less suitable for the intended use. for products for which sterility is a factor, equipment shall be sterile, unless sterility of the product is assured by subsequent procedures. 
(c) laboratory and bleeding rooms. rooms used for the processing of products, including bleeding rooms, shall be effectively fly-proofed and kept free of flies and vermin. such rooms shall be so constructed as to insure freedom from dust, smoke and other deleterious substances and to permit thorough cleaning and disinfection. rooms for animal injection and bleeding, and rooms for smallpox vaccine animals, shall be disinfected and be provided with the necessary water, electrical and other services. 
(d) animal quarters and stables. animal quarters, stables and food storage areas shall be of appropriate construction, fly-proofed, adequately lighted and ventilated, and maintained in a clean, vermin-free and sanitary condition. no manure or refuse shall be stored as to permit the breeding of flies on the premises, nor shall the establishment be located in close proximity to off-property manure or refuse storage capable of engendering fly breeding. 
(e) restrictions on building and equipment use (1) work of a diagnostic nature. laboratory procedures of a clinical diagnostic nature involving materials that may be contaminated, shall not be performed in space used for the manufacture of products except that manufacturing space which is used only occasionally may be used for diagnostic work provided spore-forming pathogenic microorganisms are not involved and provided the space is thoroughly cleaned and disinfected before the manufacture of products is resumed. 
(2) spore-forming organisms for supplemental sterilization procedure control test. spore-forming organisms used as an additional control in sterilization procedures may be introduced into areas used for the manufacture of products, only for the purposes of the test and only immediately before use for such purposes: provided, that (i) the organism is not pathogenic for man or animals and does not produce pyrogens or toxins, (ii) the culture is demonstrated to be pure, (iii) transfer of test cultures to culture media shall be limited to the sterility test area or areas designated for work with spore-forming organisms, (iv) each culture be labeled with the name of the microorganism and the statement caution: microbial spores. see directions for storage, use and disposition., and (v) the container of each culture is designed to withstand handling without breaking. 
(3) work with spore-forming microorganisms. (i) manufacturing processes using spore-forming microorganisms conducted in a multiproduct manufacturing site must be performed under appropriate controls to prevent contamination of other products and areas within the site. prevention of spore contamination can be achieved by using a separate dedicated building or by using process containment if manufacturing is conducted in a multiproduct manufacturing building. all product and personnel movement between the area where the spore-forming microorganisms are manufactured and other manufacturing areas must be conducted under conditions that will prevent the introduction of spores into other areas of the facility. 
(ii) if process containment is employed in a multiproduct manufacturing area, procedures must be in place to demonstrate adequate removal of the spore-forming microorganism(s) from the manufacturing area for subsequent manufacture of other products. these procedures must provide for adequate removal or decontamination of the spore-forming microorganisms on and within manufacturing equipment, facilities, and ancillary room items as well as the removal of disposable or product dedicated items from the manufacturing area. environmental monitoring specific for the spore-forming microorganism(s) must be conducted in adjacent areas during manufacturing operations and in the manufacturing area after completion of cleaning and decontamination. 
(4) live vaccine processing. live vaccine processing must be performed under appropriate controls to prevent cross contamination of other products and other manufacturing areas within the building. appropriate controls must include, at a minimum: 
(i)(a) using a dedicated manufacturing area that is either in a separate building, in a separate wing of a building, or in quarters at the blind end of a corridor and includes adequate space and equipment for all processing steps up to, but not including, filling into final containers; and 
(b) not conducting test procedures that potentially involve the presence of microorganisms other than the vaccine strains or the use of tissue culture cell lines other than primary cultures in space used for processing live vaccine; or 
(ii) if manufacturing is conducted in a multiproduct manufacturing building or area, using procedural controls, and where necessary, process containment. process containment is deemed to be necessary unless procedural controls are sufficient to prevent cross contamination of other products and other manufacturing areas within the building. process containment is a system designed to mechanically isolate equipment or an area that involves manufacturing using live vaccine organisms. all product, equipment, and personnel movement between distinct live vaccine processing areas and between live vaccine processing areas and other manufacturing areas, up to, but not including, filling in final containers, must be conducted under conditions that will prevent cross contamination of other products and manufacturing areas within the building, including the introduction of live vaccine organisms into other areas. in addition, written procedures and effective processes must be in place to adequately remove or decontaminate live vaccine organisms from the manufacturing area and equipment for subsequent manufacture of other products. written procedures must be in place for verification that processes to remove or decontaminate live vaccine organisms have been followed. 
(5) equipment and suppliescontamination. equipment and supplies used in work on or otherwise exposed to any pathogenic or potentially pathogenic agent shall be kept separated from equipment and supplies used in the manufacture of products to the extent necessary to prevent cross-contamination. 
(f) animals used in manufacture (1) care of animals used in manufacturing. caretakers and attendants for animals used for the manufacture of products shall be sufficient in number and have adequate experience to insure adequate care. animal quarters and cages shall be kept in sanitary condition. animals on production shall be inspected daily to observe response to production procedures. animals that become ill for reasons not related to production shall be isolated from other animals and shall not be used for production until recovery is complete. competent veterinary care shall be provided as needed. 
(2) quarantine of animals (i) general. no animal shall be used in processing unless kept under competent daily inspection and preliminary quarantine for a period of at least 7 days before use, or as otherwise provided in this subchapter. only healthy animals free from detectable communicable diseases shall be used. animals must remain in overt good health throughout the quarantine periods and particular care shall be taken during the quarantine periods to reject animals of the equine genus which may be infected with glanders and animals which may be infected with tuberculosis. 
(ii) quarantine of monkeys. in addition to observing the pertinent general quarantine requirements, monkeys used as a source of tissue in the manufacture of vaccine shall be maintained in quarantine for at least 6 weeks prior to use, except when otherwise provided in this part. only monkeys that have reacted negatively to tuberculin at the start of the quarantine period and again within 2 weeks prior to use shall be used in the manufacture of vaccine. due precaution shall be taken to prevent cross-infection from any infected or potentially infected monkeys on the premises. monkeys to be used in the manufacture of a live vaccine shall be maintained throughout the quarantine period in cages closed on all sides with solid materials except the front which shall be screened, with no more than two monkeys housed in one cage. cage mates shall not be interchanged. 
(3) immunization against tetanus. horses and other animals susceptible to tetanus, that are used in the processing steps of the manufacture of biological products, shall be treated adequately to maintain immunity to tetanus. 
(4) immunization and bleeding of animals used as a source of products. toxins or other nonviable antigens administered in the immunization of animals used in the manufacture of products shall be sterile. viable antigens, when so used, shall be free of contaminants, as determined by appropriate tests prior to use. injections shall not be made into horses within 6 inches of bleeding site. horses shall not be bled for manufacturing purposes while showing persistent general reaction or local reaction near the site of bleeding. blood shall not be used if it was drawn within 5 days of injecting the animals with viable microorganisms. animals shall not be bled for manufacturing purposes when they have an intercurrent disease. blood intended for use as a source of a biological product shall be collected in clean, sterile vessels. when the product is intended for use by injection, such vessels shall also be pyrogen-free. 
(5) [reserved] 
(6) reporting of certain diseases. in cases of actual or suspected infection with foot and mouth disease, glanders, tetanus, anthrax, gas gangrene, equine infectious anemia; equine encephalomyelitis, or any of the pock diseases among animals intended for use or used in the manufacture of products, the manufacturer shall immediately notify the director, center for biologics evaluation and research or the director, center for drug evaluation and research (see mailing addresses in  600.2). 
(7) monkeys used previously for experimental or test purposes. monkeys that have been used previously for experimental or test purposes with live microbiological agents shall not be used as a source of kidney tissue for the manufacture of vaccine. except as provided otherwise in this subchapter, monkeys that have been used previously for other experimental or test purposes may be used as a source of kidney tissue upon their return to a normal condition, provided all quarantine requirements have been met. 
(8) necropsy examination of monkeys. each monkey used in the manufacture of vaccine shall be examined at necropsy under the direction of a qualified pathologist, physician, or veterinarian having experience with diseases of monkeys, for evidence of ill health, particularly for (i) evidence of tuberculosis, (ii) presence of herpes-like lesions, including eruptions or plaques on or around the lips, in the buccal cavity or on the gums, and (iii) signs of conjunctivitis. if there are any such signs or other significant gross pathological lesions, the tissue shall not be used in the manufacture of vaccine. 
(g) filling procedures. filling procedures shall be such as will not affect adversely the safety, purity or potency of the product. 
(h) containers and closures. all final containers and closures shall be made of material that will not hasten the deterioration of the product or otherwise render it less suitable for the intended use. all final containers and closures shall be clean and free of surface solids, leachable contaminants and other materials that will hasten the deterioration of the product or otherwise render it less suitable for the intended use. after filling, sealing shall be performed in a manner that will maintain the integrity of the product during the dating period. in addition, final containers and closures for products intended for use by injection shall be sterile and free from pyrogens. except as otherwise provided in the regulations of this subchapter, final containers for products intended for use by injection shall be colorless and sufficiently transparent to permit visual examination of the contents under normal light. as soon as possible after filling final containers shall be labeled as prescribed in  610.60 et seq. of this chapter, except that final containers may be stored without such prescribed labeling provided they are stored in a sealed receptacle labeled both inside and outside with at least the name of the product, the lot number, and the filling identification. 

