" 601.91 
approval based on evidence of effectiveness from studies in animals. 
(a) fda may grant marketing approval for a biological product for which safety has been established and for which the requirements of  601.90 are met based on adequate and well-controlled animal studies when the results of those animal studies establish that the biological product is reasonably likely to produce clinical benefit in humans. in assessing the sufficiency of animal data, the agency may take into account other data, including human data, available to the agency. fda will rely on the evidence from studies in animals to provide substantial evidence of the effectiveness of these products only when: 
(1) there is a reasonably well-understood pathophysiological mechanism of the toxicity of the substance and its prevention or substantial reduction by the product; 
(2) the effect is demonstrated in more than one animal species expected to react with a response predictive for humans, unless the effect is demonstrated in a single animal species that represents a sufficiently well-characterized animal model for predicting the response in humans; 
(3) the animal study endpoint is clearly related to the desired benefit in humans, generally the enhancement of survival or prevention of major morbidity; and 
(4) the data or information on the kinetics and pharmacodynamics of the product or other relevant data or information, in animals and humans, allows selection of an effective dose in humans. 
(b) approval under this subpart will be subject to three requirements: 
(1) postmarketing studies. the applicant must conduct postmarketing studies, such as field studies, to verify and describe the biological product's clinical benefit and to assess its safety when used as indicated when such studies are feasible and ethical. such postmarketing studies would not be feasible until an exigency arises. when such studies are feasible, the applicant must conduct such studies with due diligence. applicants must include as part of their application a plan or approach to postmarketing study commitments in the event such studies become ethical and feasible. 
(2) approval with restrictions to ensure safe use. if fda concludes that a biological product shown to be effective under this subpart can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, fda will require such postmarketing restrictions as are needed to ensure safe use of the biological product, commensurate with the specific safety concerns presented by the biological product, such as: 
(i) distribution restricted to certain facilities or health care practitioners with special training or experience; 
(ii) distribution conditioned on the performance of specified medical procedures, including medical followup; and 
(iii) distribution conditioned on specified recordkeeping requirements. 
(3) information to be provided to patient recipients. for biological products or specific indications approved under this subpart, applicants must prepare, as part of their proposed labeling, labeling to be provided to patient recipients. the patient labeling must explain that, for ethical or feasibility reasons, the biological product's approval was based on efficacy studies conducted in animals alone and must give the biological product's indication(s), directions for use (dosage and administration), contraindications, a description of any reasonably foreseeable risks, adverse reactions, anticipated benefits, drug interactions, and any other relevant information required by fda at the time of approval. the patient labeling must be available with the product to be provided to patients prior to administration or dispensing of the biological product for the use approved under this subpart, if possible.", 
