" 601.2 
applications for biologics licenses; procedures for filing. 
(a) general. to obtain a biologics license under section 351 of the public health service act for any biological product, the manufacturer shall submit an application to the director, center for biologics evaluation and research or the director, center for drug evaluation and research (see mailing addresses in  600.2 of this chapter), on forms prescribed for such purposes, and shall submit data derived from nonclinical laboratory and clinical studies which demonstrate that the manufactured product meets prescribed requirements of safety, purity, and potency; with respect to each nonclinical laboratory study, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the requirements set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance; statements regarding each clinical investigation involving human subjects contained in the application, that it either was conducted in compliance with the requirements for institutional review set forth in part 56 of this chapter; or was not subject to such requirements in accordance with  56.104 or  56.105, and was conducted in compliance with requirements for informed consent set forth in part 50 of this chapter. a full description of manufacturing methods; data establishing stability of the product through the dating period; sample(s) representative of the product for introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce; summaries of results of tests performed on the lot(s) represented by the submitted sample(s); specimens of the labels, enclosures, and containers, and if applicable, any medication guide required under part 208 of this chapter proposed to be used for the product; and the address of each location involved in the manufacture of the biological product shall be listed in the biologics license application. the applicant shall also include a financial certification or disclosure statement(s) or both for clinical investigators as required by part 54 of this chapter. an application for a biologics license shall not be considered as filed until all pertinent information and data have been received by the food and drug administration. the applicant shall also include either a claim for categorical exclusion under  25.30 or  25.31 of this chapter or an environmental assessment under  25.40 of this chapter. the applicant, or the applicant's attorney, agent, or other authorized official shall sign the application. an application for any of the following specified categories of biological products subject to licensure shall be handled as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section: 
(1) therapeutic dna plasmid products; 
(2) therapeutic synthetic peptide products of 40 or fewer amino acids; 
(3) monoclonal antibody products for in vivo use; and 
(4) therapeutic recombinant dna-derived products. 
(b) [reserved] 
(c)(1) to obtain marketing approval for a biological product subject to licensure which is a therapeutic dna plasmid product, therapeutic synthetic peptide product of 40 or fewer amino acids, monoclonal antibody product for in vivo use, or therapeutic recombinant dna-derived product, an applicant shall submit a biologics license application in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section except that the following sections in parts 600 through 680 of this chapter shall not be applicable to such products:  600.10(b) and (c), 600.11, 600.12, 600.13, 610.11, 610.53, and 610.62 of this chapter. 
(2) to the extent that the requirements in this paragraph (c) conflict with other requirements in this subchapter, this paragraph (c) shall supersede other requirements. 
(d) approval of a biologics license application or issuance of a biologics license shall constitute a determination that the establishment(s) and the product meet applicable requirements to ensure the continued safety, purity, and potency of such products. applicable requirements for the maintenance of establishments for the manufacture of a product subject to this section shall include but not be limited to the good manufacturing practice requirements set forth in parts 210, 211, 600, 606, and 820 of this chapter. 
(e) any establishment and product license for a biological product issued under section 351 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 201 et seq. ) that has not been revoked or suspended as of december 20, 1999, shall constitute an approved biologics license application in effect under the same terms and conditions set forth in such product license and such portions of the establishment license relating to such product. 

