" 607.40 
establishment registration and blood product listing requirements for foreign blood product establishments. 
(a) every foreign establishment shall comply with the establishment registration and blood product listing requirements contained in subpart b of this part, unless exempt under subpart d of this part or unless the blood product enters a foreign trade zone and is re-exported from that foreign trade zone without having entered u. s. commerce. 
(b) no blood product may be imported or offered for import into the united states unless it is the subject of a blood product listing as required under subpart b of this part and is manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed at a registered foreign establishment; however, this restriction does not apply to a blood product imported or offered for import under the investigational use provisions of part 312 of this chapter or to a blood product imported under section 801(d)(4) of the act. the establishment registration and blood product listing information shall be in the english language. 
(c) each foreign establishment required to register under paragraph (a) of this section shall, as part of the establishment registration and blood product listing, submit the name and address of the establishment and the name of the individual responsible for submitting establishment registration and blood product listing information. any changes in this information shall be reported to the food and drug administration at the intervals specified for updating establishment registration information in  607.26 and blood product listing information in  607.30(a). 
(d) each foreign establishment required to register under paragraph (a) of this section shall submit the name, address, and phone number of its united states agent as part of its initial and updated registration information in accordance with subpart b of this part. each foreign establishment shall designate only one united states agent. 
(1) the united states agent shall reside or maintain a place of business in the united states. 
(2) upon request from fda, the united states agent shall assist fda in communications with the foreign establishment, respond to questions concerning the foreign establishment's products that are imported or offered for import into the united states, and assist fda in scheduling inspections of the foreign establishment. if the agency is unable to contact the foreign establishment directly or expeditiously, fda may provide information or documents to the united states agent, and such an action shall be considered to be equivalent to providing the same information or documents to the foreign establishment. 
(3) the foreign establishment or the united states agent shall report changes in the united states agent's name, address, or phone number to fda within 10-business days of the change. 

