" 607.3 
definitions. 
(a) the term act means the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act approved june 25, 1938 (52 stat. 1040 et seq., as amended, 21 u.s.c. 301-392). 
(b) blood and blood product means a drug which consists of human whole blood, plasma, or serum or any product derived from human whole blood, plasma, or serum, hereinafter referred to as blood product. for the purposes of this part only, blood and blood product also means those products that meet the definition of a device under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act and that are licensed under section 351 of the public health service act. 
(c) establishment means a place of business under one management at one general physical location. the term includes, among others, human blood and plasma donor centers, blood banks, transfusion services, other blood product manufacturers and independent laboratories that engage in quality control and testing for registered blood product establishments. 
(d) manufacture means the collection, preparation, processing or compatibility testing by chemical, physical, biological, or other procedures of any blood product which meets the definition of a drug as defined in section 201(g) of the act, and including manipulation, sampling, testing, or control procedures applied to the final product or to any part of the process. the term includes packaging, labeling, repackaging or otherwise changing the container, wrapper, or labeling of any blood product package in furtherance of the distribution of the blood product from the original place of manufacture to the person who makes final delivery or sale to the ultimate consumer. 
(e) commercial distribution means any distribution of a blood product except under the investigational use provisions of part 312 of this chapter, but does not include internal or interplant transfer of a bulk product substance between registered establishments within the same parent, subsidiary, and/or affiliate company. for foreign establishments, the term commercial distribution shall have the same meaning except that the term shall not include distribution of any blood or blood product that is neither imported nor offered for import into the united states. 
(f) any material change includes but is not limited to any change in the name of the blood product, in the quantity or identity of the active ingredient(s) or in the quantity or identity of the inactive ingredient(s) where quantitative listing of all ingredients is required pursuant to  607.31(a)(2) and any significant change in the labeling of a blood product. changes that are not significant include changes in arrangement or printing or changes of an editorial nature. 
(g) bulk product substance means any substance that is represented for use in a blood product and when used in the manufacturing of a blood product becomes an active ingredient or a finished dosage form of such product. 
(h) advertising and labeling include the promotional material described in  202.1(l) (1) and (2) of this chapter, respectively. 
(i) the definitions and interpretations contained in sections 201 and 510 of the act shall be applicable to such terms when used in this part 607. 
(j) united states agent means a person residing or maintaining a place of business in the united states whom a foreign establishment designates as its agent. this definition excludes mailboxes, answering machines or services, or other places where an individual acting as the foreign establishment's agent is not physically present. 

