" 640.5 
testing the blood. 
all laboratory tests shall be made on a specimen of blood taken from the donor at the time of collecting the unit of blood, and these tests shall include the following: 
(a) serological test for syphilis. whole blood shall be negative to a serological test for syphilis. 
(b) determination of blood group. each container of whole blood shall be classified as to abo blood group. at least two blood group tests shall be made and the unit shall not be issued until grouping tests by different methods or with different lots of antiserums are in agreement. only those anti-a and anti-b blood grouping reagents licensed under, or that otherwise meet the requirements of, the regulations of this subchapter shall be used, and the technique used shall be that for which the serum is specifically designed to be effective. 
(c) determination of the rh factors. each container of whole blood shall be classified as to rh type on the basis of tests done on the sample. the label shall indicate the extent of typing and the results of all tests performed. if the test, using anti-d blood grouping reagent, is positive, the container may be labeled rh positive. if the test is negative, the results shall be confirmed by further testing which shall include tests for the weak d (formerly d ). blood may be labeled rh negative if further testing is negative. units testing positive after additional more specific testing shall be labeled as rh positive. only anti-rh blood grouping reagents licensed under, or that otherwise meet the requirements of, this subchapter shall be used, and the technique used shall be that for which the reagent is specifically designed to be effective. 
(d) sterility test. whole blood intended for transfusion shall not be tested for sterility by a method that entails entering the final container before the blood is used for transfusion. 
(e) inspection. whole blood shall be inspected visually during storage and immediately prior to issue. if the color or physical appearance is abnormal or there is any indication or suspicion of microbial contamination the unit of whole blood shall not be issued for transfusion. 
(f) test for communicable disease agents. whole blood shall be tested for evidence of infection due to communicable disease agents as required under  610.40 of this chapter. 

