" 660.35 
labeling. 
in addition to the items required by  809.10 of this chapter and other applicable labeling provisions of this chapter, the following information shall be included in the labeling: 
(a)(1) a logo or company name may be placed on the final container label, however, the logo or company name shall be located along the bottom or end of the label, oustide of the main panel. 
(2) if washing the cells is required by the manufacturer, the container label shall include appropriate instructions; if the cells should not be washed before use, e.g., if washing will adversely affect the product, the package insert shall explain. 
(b) the container label of group o cells shall state: 
for use in detection of unexpected antibodies or for use in identification of unexpected antibodies or not for use in detection or identification of unexpected antibodies. 
(c) except as provided in this section, the container and package labels shall state the percentage of red blood cells in the suspension either as a discrete figure with a variance of more than 1 percentage unit or as a range the extremes of which differ by no more than 2 percentage units. if the stated red blood cell concentration is less than 2 percent, the variance shall be no more than 0.5 percentage unit. 
(d) the words pooled cells shall appear on the container and package labels of products prepared from pooled cells. the package label or package insert shall state that pooled cells are not recommended for pretransfusion tests, done in lieu of a major crossmatch, to detect unexpected antibodies in patients' samples. 
(e) the package insert of a pooled product intended for detection of unexpected antibodies shall identify the number of donors contributing to the pool. products designed exclusively for abo serum grouping and umbilical cord cells need not identify the number of donors in the pool. 
(f) when the product is a multicontainer product, e.g., a cell panel, the container label and package label shall be assigned the same identifying lot number, and shall also bear a number or symbol to distinguish one container from another. such number or symbol shall also appear on the antigenic constitution matrix. 
(g) the package label or package insert shall state the blood group antigens that have been tested for and found present or absent on the cells of each donor, or refer to such information in an accompanying antigenic constitution matrix. cells for abo serum grouping are exempt from this requirement. the package insert or antigen constitution matrix shall list each of the antigens tested with only one source of antibody. 
(h) the package label or package insert shall bear the cautionary statement: the reactivity of the product may decrease during the dating period. 
(i) the package insert of a product intended for the detection or identification of unexpected antibodies shall note that the rate at which antigen reactivity (e.g., agglutinability) is lost is partially dependent upon individual donor characteristics that are neither controlled nor predicted by the manufacturer. 
(j) the package insert shall provide adequate directions for use. 
(k) the package insert shall bear the statement: 
caution: all blood products should be treated as potentially infectious. source material from which this product was derived was found negative when tested in accordance with current fda required tests. no known test methods can offer assurance that products derived from human blood will not transmit infectious agents. 
(l) the package insert or the antigenic constitution matrix for each lot of product shall specify the date of manufacture or the length of the dating period. 
(m) manufacturers shall identify with a permanent donor code in the product labeling each donor of peripheral blood used for detection or identification of unexpected antibodies. 

