" 70.19 
fees for listing. 
(a) each petition for the listing of a color additive shall be accompanied by a deposit of $3,000.00 if the proposal is for listing the color additive for use generally in or on foods, in or on drugs, and in or on cosmetics. 
(b) if the petition for the listing is for use in or on foods only, the deposit shall be $3,000.00. 
(c) if the petition for the listing is for use in or on drugs and/or cosmetics only, the deposit shall be $2,600.00. 
(d) the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be applicable, whether or not the proposal contemplates any tolerances, limitations, or other restrictions placed upon the use of the color additive. 
(e) if a petition proposing the issuance of a regulation is withdrawn before it is finally accepted for filing, the deposit, less a $600.00 fee for clerical handling and administrative and technical review, shall be returned to the petitioner. 
(f) if a petition proposing the issuance of a regulation is withdrawn within 30 days after filing, the deposit, less $1,800.00 if the petition is covered by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and less $1,600.00, if the petition is covered by paragraph (c) of this section, shall be returned to the petitioner. 
(g) when a petition is withdrawn after filing and resubmitted within 6 months, it shall be accompanied by a deposit of $1,800.00 for a petition filed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and $1,600.00 for a petition filed under paragraph (c) of this section. if a petition is resubmitted after 6 months, it shall be accompanied by the deposit that would be required if it were being submitted for the first time. 
(h) when the resubmission pertains to a petition that had been withdrawn before acceptance for filing, a new advance deposit shall be made in full as prescribed in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. 
(i) after a color additive has been listed, any request for an amendment or additional tolerance shall be accompanied by a deposit of $1,800.00 for use in the items specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or $1,600.00 for use in items specified in paragraph (c) of this section. 
(j) the fee for services in listing a diluent under  80.35 for use in color additive mixtures shall be $250.00. 
(k) objections and request for public hearing under section 721(d) of the act or section 203(d)(2)(c) of pub. l. 86-618 (74 stat. 404; 21 u.s.c. 379e, note) shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $250.00. 
(l) in the event of a referral of a petition under this section to an advisory committee, all costs related thereto (including personal compensation of committee members, travel materials, and other costs) shall be borne by the person or organization requesting the referral, such costs to be assessed on the basis of actual cost to the government: provided, that the compensation of such costs shall include personal compensation of advisory committee members at a rate not to exceed $75.00 per member per day. 
(m) in the case of requests of referrals to advisory committees, a special advance deposit shall be made in the amount of $2,500.00. where required, further advance in increments of $2,500.00 each shall be made upon request of the commissioner of food and drugs. all deposits for referrals to advisory committees in excess of actual expenses shall be refunded to the depositor. 
(n) all requests for pharmacological or other scientific studies shall be accompanied by an advance deposit of $5,000.00. further advance deposits shall be made upon request of the commissioner of food and drugs when necessary to prevent arrears in such cost. any deposits in excess of actual expenses will be refunded to the depositor. if a request is denied the advance deposit will be refunded less such costs as are incurred for review of the request. 
(o) the person who files a petition for judicial review of an order under section 721(d) of the act shall pay the costs of preparing a transcript of the record on which the order is based. 
(p) all deposits and fees required by the regulations in this section shall be paid by money order, bank draft or certified check drawn to the order of the food and drug administration, collectible at par at washington, dc all deposits and fees shall be forwarded to the center for food safety and applied nutrition (hfs-200), food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740, whereupon after making appropriate record thereof they will be transmitted to the treasurer of the united states for deposit in the special account salaries and expenses, certification, inspection, and other services, food and drug administration. 
(q) the commissioner of food and drugs may waive or refund such fees in whole or in part when in his judgment such action will promote the public interest. 
(r) any person who believes that payment of these fees will work a hardship on him may petition the commissioner of food and drugs to waive or refund the fees. 

