" 71.1 
petitions. 
(a) any interested person may propose the listing of a color additive for use in or on any food, drug, or cosmetic or for coloring the human body. such proposal shall be made in a petition in the form prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. the petition shall be submitted in triplicate (quadruplicate, if intended uses include uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product). if any part of the material submitted is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by an accurate and complete english translation. the petitioner shall state the post-office address in the united states to which published notices or orders issued or objections filed pursuant to section 721 of the act may be sent. 
(b) pertinent information may be incorporated in, and will be considered as part of, a petition on the basis of specific reference to such information submitted to and retained in the files of the food and drug administration. however, any reference to unpublished information furnished by a person other than the applicant will not be considered unless use of such information is authorized in a written statement signed by the person who submitted the information. any reference to published information offered in support of a color additive petition should be accompanied by reprints or photostatic copies of such references. 
(c) petitions shall include the following data and be submitted in the following form: 
_________ (date) name of petitioner post-office address name of color additive and proposed use office of food additive safety (hfs-200), center for food safety and applied nutrition, food and drug administration, 5100 paint branch pkwy., college park, md 20740 dear sir: petitioner submits this pursuant to section 721(b)(1) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act requesting listing by the commissioner of the color additive _____ as suitable and safe for use in or on _____ subject to the conditions that _______. [petitioner may propose a listing for general use in food, drugs, or cosmetics or, if such general listing is not believed suitable and safe, the petitioner shall describe the conditions under which he believes the additive can be safely used and for which it will be suitable. these conditions may include tolerance limitations, specifications as to the manner in which the additive may be added or used, and directions and other labeling or packaging safeguards that should be applied. the level of use proposed should not be higher than reasonably required to accomplish the intended color effect.] attached hereto, in triplicate (quadruplicate, if intended uses include uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product), and constituting a part of this petition are the following: a. the name and all pertinent information concerning the color additive, including chemical identity and composition of the color additive, its physical, chemical, and biological properties, and specifications prescribing its component(s) and identifying and limiting the reaction byproducts and other impurities. the petition shall contain a description of the chemical and physical tests relied upon to identify the color additive and shall contain a full description of the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the production of the color additive. these shall establish that it is a substance of reproducible composition. alternative methods and controls and variations in methods and controls, within reasonable limits, that do not affect the characteristics of the substance or the reliability of the controls may be specified. the petition shall supply a list of all substances used in the synthesis, extraction, or other method of preparation of any straight color, regardless of whether they undergo chemical change in the process. each substance should be identified by its common or usual name and its complete chemical name, using structural formulas when necessary for specific identification. if any proprietary preparation is used as a component, the proprietary name should be followed by a complete quantitive statement of composition. reasonable alternatives for any listed substance may be specified. if the petitioner does not himself perform all the manufacturing, processing, and packing operations for a color additive, the petitioner shall identify each person who will perform a part of such operations and designate the part. the petition shall include stability data, and, if the data indicate that it is needed to insure the identity, strength, quality, or purity of the color additive, the expiration period that will be employed as well as any packaging and labeling precautions needed to preserve stability. b. the amount of the color additive proposed for use and the color effect intended to be achieved, together with all directions, recommendations, and suggestions regarding the proposed use, as well as specimens of the labeling proposed for the color additive. if the color effect results or may reasonably be expected to result from use of the color additive in packaging material, the petitioner shall show how this may occur and what residues may reasonably be anticipated. typewritten or other draft-labeling copy will be accepted for consideration of the petition provided final printed labeling identical in content to the draft copy is submitted as soon as available, and prior to the marketing of the color additive. the printed labeling shall conform in prominence and conspicuousness with the requirements of the act. if the color additive is one for which a tolerance limitation is required to assure its safety, the level of use proposed should be no higher than the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or other technical effect, even though the safety data may support a higher tolerance. if the safety data will not support the use of the amount of the color additive reasonably needed to accomplish the desired color effect, the requested tolerance will not be established. petitioners are expected to propose the use of color additives in accordance with sound color chemistry. c.1. a description of practicable methods to determine the pure color and all intermediates, subsidiary colors, and other components of the color additive. 2. a description of practicable methods to determine the amount of the color additive in any raw, processed, and/or finished food, drug, or cosmetic in which use of the color additive is proposed. (the tests proposed shall be those that can be used for food, drug, or cosmetic control purposes and can be applied with consistent results by any properly equipped laboratory and trained personnel.) 3. a description of methods for identification and determination of any substance formed in or on such food, drug, or cosmetic because of the use of the color additive. (if it is the petitioner's view that any such method would not be needed, under the terms of section 721(b)(5)(a)(iv), a statement shall be submitted in lieu of methods as to the basis for such view.) d. full reports of investigation made with respect to the safety of the color additive. (a petition will be regarded as incomplete unless it includes full reports of adequate tests reasonably applicable to show whether or not the color additive will be safe for its intended use. the reports ordinarily should include detailed data derived from appropriate animal and other biological experiments in which the methods used and the results obtained are clearly set forth. the petition shall not omit without explanation any data that would influence the evaluation of the safety of the color additive). e. complete data which will allow the commissioner to consider, among other things, the probable consumption of, and/or other relevant exposure from the additive and of any substance formed in or on food, drugs, or cosmetics because of such additive; and the cumulative effect, if any, of such additive in the diet of man or animals, taking into account the same or any chemically or pharmacologically related substance or substances in the diet including, but not limited to food additives and pesticide chemicals for which tolerances or exemptions from tolerances have been established. f. proposed tolerances and other limitations on the use of the color additive, if tolerances and limitations are required in order to insure its safety. a petitioner may include a proposed regulation. g. if exemption from batch certification is requested, the reasons why it is believed such certification is not necessary (including supporting data to establish the safety of the intended use). h. if submitting a petition to alter an existing regulation issued pursuant to section 721(b) of the act, full information on each proposed change that is to be made in the original regulation must be submitted. the petition may omit statements made in the original petition concerning which no change is proposed. a supplemental petition must be submitted for any change beyond the variations provided for in the original petition and the regulation issued on the basis of the original petition. i. the prescribed fee of $______ for admitting the color additive to listing is enclosed (unless there is an advance deposit adequate to cover the fee). yours very truly, (petitioner) by _______ (indicate authority) j. the petitioner is required to submit either a claim for categorical exclusion under  25.30 or 25.32 of this chapter or an environmental assessment under  25.40 of this chapter. 
(d) the petitioner will be notified of the date on which his petition is filed; and an incomplete petition, or one that has not been submitted in triplicate, will be retained but not filed. a petition shall be retained but shall not be filed if any of the data listed in the above form are lacking or are not set forth so as to be readily understood or if the prescribed fee has not been submitted. the petitioner will be notified in what respects his petition is incomplete. 
(e) the petition must be signed by the petitioner or by his attorney or authorized agent, who is a resident of the united states. 
(f) the data specified under the several lettered headings should be submitted on separate sheets or sets of sheets, suitably identified. if such data have already been submitted with an earlier application, the present petition may incorporate it by specific reference to the earlier petition. 
(g) if nonclinical laboratory studies are involved, petitions filed with the commissioner under section 721(b) of the act shall include with respect to each nonclinical study contained in the petition, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance. 
(h) [reserved] 
(i) if clinical investigations involving human subjects are involved, petitions filed with the commissioner under section 721(b) of the act shall include statements regarding each such clinical investigation contained in the petition that it either was conducted in compliance with the requirements for institutional review set forth in part 56 of this chapter, or was not subject to such requirements in accordance with  56.104 or 56.105, and that it was conducted in compliance with the requirements for informed consent set forth in part 50 of this chapter. 
(j)(1) if intended uses of the color additive include uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product subject to regulation by the u.s. department of agriculture (usda) under the poultry products inspection act (ppia) (21 u.s.c. 451 et seq. ) or the federal meat inspection act (fmia) (21 u.s.c. 601 et seq. ), fda shall, upon filing of the petition, forward a copy of the petition or relevant portions thereof to the food safety and inspection service, usda, for simultaneous review under the ppia and fmia. 
(2) fda will ask usda to advise whether the proposed meat and poultry uses comply with the fmia and ppia or, if not, whether use of the substance would be permitted in products under usda jurisdiction under specified conditions or restrictions. 

