" 71.20 
publication of regulation. 
the commissioner will forward for publication in the federal register, within 90 days after filing of the petition (or within 180 days if the time is extended as provided for in section 721(d)(1) of the act): 
(a) a regulation listing in part 73 or 74 of this chapter the color additive on the appropriate list or lists as provided under section 721(b)(1). 
(1) such a regulation may list the color additive for use generally in or on foods, drugs, or cosmetics or for use in coloring the human body, as the case may be, or may prescribe the conditions under which the color additive may be safely used (including, but not limited to, specifications as to the particular food, drug, or cosmetic or classes of food, drugs, or cosmetics in or on which such color additive may be used, or for the material intended for coloring the human body; the maximum quantity of any straight color or diluent that may be used or permitted to remain in or on such food, drug, or cosmetic or article intended for coloring the human body; the manner in which such color additive may be added to or used in or on such food, drug, or cosmetic or for coloring the human body; and any directions or other labeling or packing requirements for such color additives deemed necessary to assure the safety of such use). 
(2) such regulations shall list the color additive only for the use or uses for which it has been found suitable and for which it may safely be employed. alternatively, the commissioner shall by order deny the petition, and notify the petitioner of such order and the reasons therefor. 
(3) the regulation shall list any use or uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product subject to the federal meat inspection act (fmia) (21 u.s.c. 601 et seq. ) or the poultry products inspection (ppia) (21 u.s.c. 451 et seq. ) for which the color additive has been found suitable and for which it may safely be employed. 
(b) whenever the commissioner finds that batch certification is not necessary for the protection of the public health he will, by order, exempt the color additive from the certification procedure. in determining whether certification of a color additive is necessary, the commissioner will consider the composition of the additive, its manufacturing process, possible impurities, its toxic potential, control and analytical procedures necessary to assure compliance with the listing specifications, and the variability of its composition. 

