" 73.1298 
ferric ammonium ferrocyanide. 
(a) identity. (1) the color additive ferric ammonium ferrocyanide is the blue pigment obtained by oxidizing under acidic conditions with sodium dichromate the acid digested precipitate resulting from mixing solutions of ferrous sulfate and sodium ferrocyanide in the presence of ammonium sulfate. the oxidized product is filtered, washed, and dried. the pigment consists principally of ferric ammonium ferrocyanide with smaller amounts of ferric ferrocyanide and ferric sodium ferrocyanide. 
(2) color additive mixtures for drug use made with ferric ammonium ferrocyanide may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs. 
(b) specifications. ferric ammonium ferrocyanide shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free of impurities other than those named to the extent that the other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice: 
oxalic acid or its salts, not more than 0.1 percent. water soluble matter, not more than 3 percent. water soluble cyanide, not more than 10 parts per million. volatile matter, not more than 4 percent. lead (as pb), not more than 20 parts per million. arsenic (as as), not more than 3 parts per million. nickel (as ni), not more than 200 parts per million. cobalt (as co), not more than 200 parts per million. mercury (as hg), not more than 1 part per million. total iron (as fe corrected for volatile matter), not less than 33 percent and not more than 39 percent. 
(c) uses and restrictions. ferric ammonium ferrocyanide may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color externally applied drugs, including those for use in the area of the eye. 
(d) labeling requirements. the label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of  70.25 of this chapter. 
(e) exemption from certification. certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therfore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act. 

