" 73.1646 
bronze powder. 
(a) identity. (1) the color additive bronze powder is a very fine metallic powder prepared from alloys consisting principally of virgin electrolytic copper and zinc with small amounts of the virgin metals aluminum and tin. it contains small amounts of stearic or oleic acid as lubricants. 
(2) color additive mixtures for drug use made with bronze powder may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs. 
(b) specifications. bronze powder shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice: 
stearic or oleic acid, not more than 5 percent. cadmium (as cd), not more than 15 parts per million. lead (as pb), not more than 20 parts per million. arsenic (as as), not more than 3 parts per million. mercury (as hg), not more than 1 part per million aluminum (as al), not more than 0.5 percent. tin (as sn), not more than 0.5 percent. copper (as cu), not more than 95 percent and not less than 70 percent. zinc (as zn), not more than 30 percent. maximum particle size 45 (95 percent minimum). 
aluminum, zinc, tin, and copper content shall be based on the weight of the dried powder after being thoroughly washed with ether. 
(c) uses and restrictions. bronze powder may be safely used in color externally applied drugs, including those intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice. 
(d) labeling. the color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of  70.25 of this chapter. 
(e) exemption from certification. certification of the color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act. 

