" 73.125 
sodium copper chlorophyllin. 
(a) identity. (1) the color additive sodium copper chlorophyllin is a green to black powder prepared from chlorophyll by saponification and replacement of magnesium by copper. chlorophyll is extracted from alfalfa ( medicago sativa ) using any one or a combination of the solvents acetone, ethanol, and hexane. 
(2) color additive mixtures made with sodium copper chlorophyllin may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods. 
(b) specifications. sodium copper chlorophyllin shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice: 
(1) moisture, not more than 5.0 percent. 
(2) solvent residues (acetone, ethanol, and hexane), not more than 50 parts per million, singly or, in combination. 
(3) total copper, not less than 4 percent and not more than 6 percent. 
(4) free copper, not more than 200 parts per million. 
(5) lead (as pb), not more than 10 parts per million. 
(6) arsenic (as as), not more than 3 parts per million. 
(7) mercury (as hg), not more than 0.5 part per million. 
(8) ratio of absorbance at 405 nanometers (nm) to absorbance at 630 nm, not less than 3.4 and not more than 3.9. 
(9) total copper chlorophyllins, not less than 95 percent of the sample dried at 100 c for 1 hour. 
(c) uses and restrictions. sodium copper chlorophyllin may be safely used to color citrus-based dry beverage mixes in an amount not exceeding 0.2 percent in the dry mix. 
(d) labeling requirements. the label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of  70.25 of this chapter. 
(e) exemption from certification. certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act. 

