" 73.295 
tagetes (aztec marigold) meal and extract. 
(a) identity. (1) the color additive tagetes (aztec marigold) meal is the dried, ground flower petals of the aztec marigold ( tagetes erecta l.) mixed with not more than 0.3 percent ethoxyquin. 
(2) the color additive tagetes (aztec marigold) extract is a hexane extract of the flower petals of the aztec marigold ( tagetes erecta l.). it is mixed with an edible vegetable oil, or with an edible vegetable oil and a hydrogenated edible vegetable oil, and not more than 0.3 percent ethoxyquin. it may also be mixed with soy flour or corn meal as a carrier. 
(b) specifications. (1) tagetes (aztec marigold) meal is free from admixture with other plant material from tageteserecta l. or from plant material or flowers of any other species of plants. 
(2) tagetes (aztec marigold) extract shall be prepared from tagetes (aztec marigold) petals meeting the specifications set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and shall conform to the following additional specifications: 
melting point 53.5-55.0 c. iodine value 132-145. saponification value 175-200. acid value 0.60-1.20. titer 35.5-37.0 c. unsaponifiable matter 23.0 percent-27.0 percent. hexane residue not more than 25 p.p.m. 
all determinations, except the hexane residue, shall be made on the initial extract of the flower petals (after drying in a vacuum oven at 60 c. for 24 hours) prior to the addition of the oils and ethoxyquin. the hexane determination shall be made on the color additive after the addition of the vegetable oils, hydrogenated vegetable oils, and ethoxyquin. 
(c) uses and restrictions. the color additives tagetes (aztec marigold) meal and extract may be safely used in chicken feed in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: 
(1) the color additives are used to enhance the yellow color of chicken skin and eggs. 
(2) the quantity of the color additives incorporated in the feed is such that the finished feed: 
(i) is supplemented sufficiently with xanthophyll and associated carotenoids so as to accomplish the intended effect described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and 
(ii) meets the tolerance limitation for ethoxyquin in animal feed prescribed in  573.380 of this chapter. 
(d) labeling requirements. the label of the color additives and any premixes prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the information required by  70.25 of this chapter: 
(1) a statement of the concentrations of xanthophyll and ethoxyquin contained therein. 
(2) adequate directions to provide a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. 
(e) exemption from certification. certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.", 
