" 73.30 
annatto extract. 
(a) identity. (1) the color additive annatto extract is an extract prepared from annatto seed, bixa orellana l., using any one or an appropriate combination of the food-grade extractants listed in paragraph (a)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section: 
(i) alkaline aqueous solution, alkaline propylene glycol, ethyl alcohol or alkaline solutions thereof, edible vegetable oils or fats, mono- and diglycerides from the glycerolysis of edible vegetable oils or fats. the alkaline alcohol or aqueous extracts may be treated with food-grade acids to precipitate annatto pigments, which are separated from the liquid and dried, with or without intermediate recrystallization, using the solvents listed under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. food-grade alkalis or carbonates may be added to adjust alkalinity. 
(ii) acetone, ethylene dichloride, hexane, isopropyl alcohol, methyl alcohol, methylene chloride, trichloroethylene. 
(2) color additive mixtures for food use made with annatto extract may contain only diluents that are suitable and that are listed in this subpart as safe in color additive mixtures for coloring foods. 
(b) specifications. annatto extract, including pigments precipitated therefrom, shall conform to the following specifications: 
(1) arsenic (as as), not more than 3 parts per million; lead as pb, not more than 10 parts per million. 
(2) when solvents listed under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section are used, annatto extract shall contain no more solvent residue than is permitted of the corresponding solvents in spice oleoresins under applicable food additive regulations in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter. 
(c) uses and restrictions. annatto extract may be safely used for coloring foods generally, in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards. 
(d) labeling. the label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom and intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of  70.25 of this chapter. labels shall bear information showing that the color is derived from annatto seed. the requirements of  70.25(a) of this chapter that all ingredients shall be listed by name shall not be construed as requiring the declaration of residues of solvents listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. 
(e) exemption from certification. certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.", 
