" 74.1705 
fd&c yellow no. 5. 
(a) identity and specifications. (1) the color additive fd&c yellow no. 5 shall conform in identity and specifications to the requirements of  74.705 (a)(1) and (b). 
(2) fd&c yellow no. 5 aluminum lake shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of  82.51 of this chapter. 
(3) color additive mixtures for drug use made with fd&c yellow no. 5 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in part 73 of this chapter as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs. 
(b) uses and restrictions. (1) fd&c yellow no. 5 may be safely used for coloring drugs generally, including drugs intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with current good manufacturing practice. 
(2) fd&c yellow no. 5 aluminum lake may be safely used for coloring drugs intended for use in the area of the eye, when prepared in accordance with  82.51 of this chapter. 
(c) labeling requirements. (1) the label of the color additive and any mixtures intended solely or in part for coloring purposes prepared therefrom shall conform to the requirements of  70.25 of this chapter. 
(2) the label of otc and prescription drug products intended for human use administered orally, nasally, rectally, or vaginally, or for use in the area of the eye, containing fd&c yellow no. 5 shall specifically declare the presence of fd&c yellow no. 5 by listing the color additive using the names fd&c yellow no. 5 and tartrazine. the label shall bear a statement such as contains fd&c yellow no. 5 (tartrazine) as a color additive or contains color additives including fd&c yellow no. 5 (tartrazine). the labels of certain drug products subject to this labeling requirement that are also cosmetics, such as: antibacterial mouthwashes and fluoride toothpastes, need not comply with this requirement provided they comply with the requirements of  701.3 of this chapter. 
(3) for prescription drugs for human use containing fd&c yellow no. 5 that are administered orally, nasally, vaginally, or rectally, or for use in the area of the eye, the labeling required by  201.100(d) of this chapter shall, in addition to the label statement required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, bear the warning statement this product contains fd&c yellow no. 5 (tartrazine) which may cause allergic-type reactions (including bronchial asthma) in certain susceptible persons. although the overall incidence of fd&c yellow no. 5 (tartrazine) sensitivity in the general population is low, it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity. this warning statement shall appear in the precautions section of the labeling. 
(d) certification. all batches of fd&c yellow no. 5 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter. 

