" 81.1 
provisional lists of color additives. 
the commissioner of food and drugs finds that the following lists of color additives are provisionally listed under section 203(b) of the color additive amendments of 1960 (sec. 203(b), 74 stat. 405 (21 u.s.c. 379e note)). except for color additives for which petitions have been filed, progress reports are required by january 1, 1968, and at 6-month intervals thereafter. specifications for color additives listed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section appear in the respective designated sections. the listing of color additives in this section is not to be construed as a listing for surgical suture use unless color additive petitions have been submitted for such use or the commissioner has been notified of studies underway to establish the safety of the color additive for such use. the color additives listed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section may not be used in products which are intended to be used in the area of the eye. the color additives listed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section are provisionally listed until the closing dates set forth therein. 
(a) color additives previously and presently subject to certification and provisionally listed for food, drug, and cosmetic use. 
color additive closing date food use drug and cosmetic use restrictions lakes (fd&c) (sec. 82.51 of this chapter) 
(b) color additives previously and presently subject to certification and provisionally listed for drug and cosmetic use. 
closing date restrictions lakes (d&c) (sec. 82.2051 of this chapter) 
(c) color additives previously and presently subject to certification and provisionally listed for use in externally applied drugs and cosmetics. 
closing date restrictions lakes (ext. d&c) (sec. 82.105(1) of this chapter) 

editorial note: for federal register citations affecting  81.1, see the list of cfr sections affected, which appears in the finding aids section of the printed volume and at www.fdsys.gov.", 
