" 810.2 
definitions. 
as used in this part: 
(a) act means the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. 
(b) agency or fda means the food and drug administration. 
(c) cease distribution and notification strategy or mandatory recall strategy means a planned, specific course of action to be taken by the person named in a cease distribution and notification order or in a mandatory recall order, which addresses the extent of the notification or recall, the need for public warnings, and the extent of effectiveness checks to be conducted. 
(d) consignee means any person or firm that has received, purchased, or used a device that is subject to a cease distribution and notification order or a mandatory recall order. consignee does not mean lay individuals or patients, i.e., nonhealth professionals. 
(e) correction means repair, modification, adjustment, relabeling, destruction, or inspection (including patient monitoring) of a device, without its physical removal from its point of use to some other location. 
(f) device user facility means a hospital, ambulatory surgical facility, nursing home, or outpatient treatment or diagnostic facility that is not a physician's office. 
(g) health professionals means practitioners, including physicians, nurses, pharmacists, dentists, respiratory therapists, physical therapists, technologists, or any other practitioners or allied health professionals that have a role in using a device for human use. 
(h) human cell, tissue, or cellular or tissue-based product (hct/p) regulated as a device means an hct/p as defined in  1271.3(d) of this chapter that does not meet the criteria in  1271.10(a) and that is also regulated as a device. 
(i) reasonable probability means that it is more likely than not that an event will occur. 
(j) serious, adverse health consequence means any significant adverse experience, including those that may be either life-threatening or involve permanent or long-term injuries, but excluding injuries that are nonlife-threatening and that are temporary and reasonably reversible. 
(k) recall means the correction or removal of a device for human use where fda finds that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious, adverse health consequences or death. 
(l) removal means the physical removal of a device from its point of use to some other location for repair, modification, adjustment, relabeling, destruction, or inspection. 
(m) unique device identifier (udi) means an identifier that adequately identifies a device through its distribution and use by meeting the requirements of  830.20 of this chapter. a unique device identifier is composed of: 
(1) a device identifier a mandatory, fixed portion of a udi that identifies the specific version or model of a device and the labeler of that device; and 
(2) a production identifier a conditional, variable portion of a udi that identifies one or more of the following when included on the label of the device: 
(i) the lot or batch within which a device was manufactured; 
(ii) the serial number of a specific device; 
(iii) the expiration date of a specific device; 
(iv) the date a specific device was manufactured. 
(v) for an hct/p regulated as a device, the distinct identification code required by  1271.290(c) of this chapter. 

