" 814.15 
research conducted outside the united states. 
(a) a study conducted outside the united states submitted in support of a pma and conducted under an ide shall comply with part 812. a study conducted outside the united states submitted in support of a pma and not conducted under an ide shall comply with the provisions in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable. 
(b) research begun on or after effective date. fda will accept studies submitted in support of a pma which have been conducted outside the united states and begun on or after november 19, 1986, if the data are valid and the investigator has conducted the studies in conformance with the declaration of helsinki or the laws and regulations of the country in which the research is conducted, whichever accords greater protection to the human subjects. if the standards of the country are used, the applicant shall state in detail any differences between those standards and the declaration of helsinki and explain why they offer greater protection to the human subjects. 
(c) research begun before effective date. fda will accept studies submitted in support of a pma which have been conducted outside the united states and begun before november 19, 1986, if fda is satisfied that the data are scientifically valid and that the rights, safety, and welfare of human subjects have not been violated. 
(d) as sole basis for marketing approval. a pma based solely on foreign clinical data and otherwise meeting the criteria for approval under this part may be approved if: 
(1) the foreign data are applicable to the u.s. population and u.s. medical practice; 
(2) the studies have been performed by clinical investigators of recognized competence; and 
(3) the data may be considered valid without the need for an on-site inspection by fda or, if fda considers such an inspection to be necessary, fda can validate the data through an on-site inspection or other appropriate means. 
(e) consultation between fda and applicants. applicants are encouraged to meet with fda officials in a presubmission meeting when approval based solely on foreign data will be sought. 
(approved by the office of management and budget under control number 0910-0231) 

