" 862.1373 
hemoglobin a1c test system. 
(a) identification. a hemoglobin a1c test system is a device used to measure the percentage concentration of hemoglobin a1c in blood. measurement of hemoglobin a1c is used as an aid in the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus and as an aid in the identification of patients at risk for developing diabetes mellitus. 
(b) classification. class ii (special controls). the special controls for this device are: 
(1) the device must have initial and annual standardization verification by a certifying glycohemoglobin standardization organization deemed acceptable by fda. 
(2) the premarket notification submission must include performance testing to evaluate precision, accuracy, linearity, and interference, including the following: 
(i) performance testing of device precision must, at a minimum, use blood samples with concentrations near 5.0 percent, 6.5 percent, 8.0 percent, and 12 percent hemoglobin a1c. this testing must evaluate precision over a minimum of 20 days using at least three lots of the device and three instruments, as applicable. 
(ii) performance testing of device accuracy must include a minimum of 120 blood samples that span the measuring interval of the device and compare results of the new device to results of a standardized test method. results must demonstrate little or no bias versus the standardized method. 
(iii) total error of the new device must be evaluated using single measurements by the new device compared to results of the standardized test method, and this evaluation must demonstrate a total error less than or equal to 6 percent. 
(iv) performance testing must demonstrate that there is little to no interference from common hemoglobin variants, including hemoglobin c, hemoglobin d, hemoglobin e, hemoglobin a2, and hemoglobin s. 
(3) when assay interference from hemoglobin f or interference with other hemoglobin variants with low frequency in the population is observed, a warning statement must be placed in a black box and must appear in all labeling material for these devices describing the interference and any affected populations. 

