" 870.5100 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) catheter. 
(a) standard ptca catheter (1) identification. a ptca catheter is a device that operates on the principle of hydraulic pressurization applied through an inflatable balloon attached to the distal end. a ptca balloon catheter has a single or double lumen shaft. the catheter features a balloon of appropriate compliance for the clinical application, constructed from a polymer. the balloon is designed to uniformly expand to a specified diameter and length at a specific pressure as labeled, with well characterized rates of inflation and deflation and a defined burst pressure. the device generally features a type of radiographic marker to facilitate fluoroscopic visualization of the balloon during use. a ptca catheter is intended for balloon dilatation of a hemodynamically significant coronary artery or bypass graft stenosis in patients evidencing coronary ischemia for the purpose of improving myocardial perfusion. a ptca catheter may also be intended for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction; treatment of in-stent restenosis (isr) and/or post-deployment stent expansion. 
(2) classification. class ii (special controls). the special control for this device is class ii special controls guidance document for certain percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (ptca) catheters. see  870.1(e) for the availability of this guidance document. 
(b) cutting/scoring ptca catheter (1) identification. a cutting/scoring ptca catheter is a balloon-tipped catheter with cutting/scoring elements attached, which is used in those circumstances where a high pressure balloon resistant lesion is encountered. a cutting/scoring ptca catheter is intended for the treatment of hemodynamically significant coronary artery stenosis for the purpose of improving myocardial perfusion. a cutting/scoring ptca catheter may also be indicated for use in complex type c lesions or for the treatment of in-stent restenosis. 
(2) classification. class iii (premarket approval). as of may 28, 1976, an approval under section 515 of the act is required before this device may be commercially distributed. see  870.3. 

