" 876.5870 
sorbent hemoperfusion system. 
(a) identification. a sorbent hemoperfusion system is a prescription device that consists of an extracorporeal blood system similar to that identified in the hemodialysis system and accessories ( 876.5820) and a container filled with adsorbent material that removes a wide range of substances, both toxic and normal, from blood flowing through it. the adsorbent materials are usually activated-carbon or resins which may be coated or immobilized to prevent fine particles entering the patient's blood. the generic type of device may include lines and filters specifically designed to connect the device to the extracorporeal blood system. the device is used in the treatment of poisoning, drug overdose, hepatic coma, or metabolic disturbances. 
(b) classification. (1) class ii (special controls) when the device is intended for the treatment of poisoning and drug overdose. the special controls for this device are: 
(i) the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible; 
(ii) performance data must demonstrate the mechanical integrity of the device (e.g., tensile, flexural, and structural strength), including testing for the possibility of leaks, ruptures, release of particles, and/or disconnections under anticipated conditions of use; 
(iii) performance data must demonstrate device sterility and shelf life; 
(iv) bench performance testing must demonstrate device functionality in terms of substances, toxins, and drugs removed by the device, and the extent that these are removed when the device is used according to its labeling, and to validate the device's safeguards; 
(v) a summary of clinical experience with the device that discusses and analyzes device safety and performance, including a list of adverse events observed during the testing, must be provided; 
(vi) labeling must include the following: 
(a) a detailed summary of the device-related and procedure-related complications pertinent to the use of the device; 
(b) a summary of the performance data provided for the device, including a list of the drugs and/or poisons the device has been demonstrated to remove, and the extent for removal/depletion; and 
(vii) for those devices that incorporate electrical components, appropriate analysis and testing must be conducted to verify electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility of the device. 
(2) class iii (premarket approval) when the device is intended for the treatment of hepatic coma and metabolic disturbances. 
(c) date premarket approval application (pma) or notice of completion of product development protocol (pdp) is required. a pma or notice of completion of a pdp is required to be filed with fda by april 17, 2014, for any sorbent hemoperfusion system indicated for treatment of hepatic coma or metabolic disturbances that was in commercial distribution before may 28, 1976, or that has, by april 17, 2014, been found to be substantially equivalent to any sorbent hemoperfusion device indicated for treatment of hepatic coma or metabolic disturbances that was in commercial distribution before may 28, 1976. any other sorbent hemoperfusion system device indicated for treatment of hepatic coma or metabolic disturbances shall have an approved pma or declared completed pdp in effect before being placed in commercial distribution. 

