" 890.5150 
powered patient transport. 
(a) powered patient stairway chair lifts (1) identification. a powered patient stairway chair lift is a motorized lift equipped with a seat and permanently mounted in one location that is intended for use in mitigating mobility impairment caused by injury or other disease by moving a person up and down a stairway. 
(2) classification. class ii. the stairway chair lift is exempt from premarket notification procedures in subpart e of part 807 of this chapter, subject to  890.9 and the following conditions for exemption: 
(i) appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing (such as that outlined in the currently fda-recognized edition of american society of mechanical engineers (asme) a18.1 safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chair lifts) must demonstrate that the safety controls are adequate to prevent a free fall of the chair in the event of a device failure; 
(ii) appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing must demonstrate the ability of the device, including armrests, to withstand the rated load with an appropriate factor of safety; 
(iii) appropriate restraints must be provided to prevent the user from falling from the device (such as that outlined in the currently fda-recognized edition of asme a18.1 safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chair lifts); 
(iv) appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing (such as that outlined in the currently fda-recognized editions of aami/ansi/iec 60601-1-2, medical electrical equipmentpart 1-2: general requirements for safetycollateral standard: electromagnetic compatibilityrequirements and tests, and asme a18.1 safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chair lifts) must validate electromagnetic compatibility and electrical safety; and 
(v) appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing must demonstrate the resistance of the device upholstery to ignition. 
(b) all other powered patient transport (1) identification. a powered patient transport is a motorized device intended for use in mitigating mobility impairment caused by injury or other disease by moving a person from one location or level to another, such as up and down flights of stairs (e.g., attendant-operated portable stair-climbing chairs). this generic type of device does not include motorized three-wheeled vehicles or wheelchairs. 
(2) classification. class ii. 

