" 890.3930 
wheelchair elevator. 
(a) permanently mounted wheelchair platform lift (1) identification. a permanently mounted wheelchair platform lift is a motorized vertical or inclined platform lift device permanently installed in one location that is intended for use in mitigating mobility impairment caused by injury or other disease by providing a guided platform to move a person from one level to another, with or without a wheelchair. 
(2) classification. class ii. the permanently mounted wheelchair platform lift is exempt from premarket notification procedures in subpart e of part 807 of this chapter, subject to  890.9 and the following conditions for exemption: 
(i) appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing (such as that outlined in the currently fda-recognized edition of asme a18.1 safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chair lifts) must demonstrate that the safety controls are adequate to prevent a free fall of the platform in the event of a device failure; 
(ii) appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing (such as that outlined in the currently fda-recognized edition of asme a18.1 safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chair lifts) must demonstrate the ability of the device to withstand the rated load with an appropriate factor of safety; 
(iii) appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing (such as that outlined in the currently fda-recognized edition of asme a18.1 safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chair lifts) must demonstrate the ability of the enclosures to prevent the user from falling from the device; and 
(iv) appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing (such as that outlined in the currently fda-recognized editions of aami/ansi/iec 60601-1-2, medical electrical equipmentpart 1-2: general requirements for safetycollateral standard: electromagnetic compatibilityrequirements and tests, and asme a18.1 safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chair lifts) must validate electromagnetic compatibility and electrical safety. 
(b) portable wheelchair elevators (1) identification. a portable wheelchair elevator is a motorized lift device that is not permanently mounted in one location and that is intended for use in mitigating mobility impairment caused by injury or other disease by providing a means to move a person, with or without a wheelchair, from one level to another (e.g., portable platform lifts, attendant-operated stair climbing devices for wheelchairs). 
(2) classification. class ii. 

