" 900.6 
withdrawal of approval. 
if fda determines, through the evaluation activities of  900.5, or through other means, that an accreditation body is not in substantial compliance with this subpart, fda may initiate the following actions: 
(a) major deficiencies. if fda determines that an accreditation body has failed to perform a major accreditation function satisfactorily, has demonstrated willful disregard for public health, has violated the code of conduct, has committed fraud, or has submitted material false statements to the agency, fda may withdraw its approval of that accreditation body. 
(1) fda shall notify the accreditation body of the agency's action and the grounds on which the approval was withdrawn. 
(2) an accreditation body that has lost its approval shall notify facilities accredited or seeking accreditation by it that its approval has been withdrawn. such notification shall be made within a time period and in a manner approved by fda. 
(b) minor deficiencies. if fda determines that an accreditation body has demonstrated deficiencies in performing accreditation functions and responsibilities that are less serious or more limited than the deficiencies in paragraph (a) of this section, fda shall notify the body that it has a specified period of time to take particular corrective measures directed by fda or to submit to fda for approval the body's own plan of corrective action addressing the minor deficiencies. fda may place the body on probationary status for a period of time determined by fda, or may withdraw approval of the body as an accreditation body if corrective action is not taken. 
(1) if fda places an accreditation body on probationary status, the body shall notify all facilities accredited or seeking accreditation by it of its probationary status within a time period and in a manner approved by fda. 
(2) probationary status shall remain in effect until such time as the body can demonstrate to the satisfaction of fda that it has successfully implemented or is implementing the corrective action plan within the established schedule, and that the corrective actions have substantially eliminated all identified problems. 
(3) if fda determines that an accreditation body that has been placed on probationary status is not implementing corrective actions satisfactorily or within the established schedule, fda may withdraw approval of the accreditation body. the accreditation body shall notify all facilities accredited or seeking accreditation by it of its loss of fda approval, within a time period and in a manner approved by fda. 
(c) reapplication by accreditation bodies that have had their approval withdrawn. (1) a former accreditation body that has had its approval withdrawn may submit a new application for approval if the body can provide information to fda to establish that the problems that were grounds for withdrawal of approval have been resolved. 
(2) if fda determines that the new application demonstrates that the body satisfactorily has addressed the causes of its previous unacceptable performance, fda may reinstate approval of the accreditation body. 
(3) fda may request additional information or establish additional conditions that must be met by a former accreditation body before fda approves the reapplication. 
(4) fda may refuse to accept an application from a former accreditation body whose approval was withdrawn because of fraud or willful disregard of public health.", 
